Here in Davos, Switzerland at the World
Economic Forum for day two, day three,
I'm not sure. It's blurring together and
a lot of people are here
just completely active. Good morning and
welcome to Bloomberg Surveillance live
from Davos. John will be back with us a
little later. It is a huge day for
global markets and certainly here at
Davos. All eyes first and foremost will
be on President Donald Trump's speech in
Davos later today. Anne Marie, it seems
like that has sucked all of the oxygen
out of the room.
>> Oh, absolutely. And the president was
supposed to be delayed. He was on Air
Force One and then they had to turn
around. They had to deplane in another
plane. There was some issues. I was told
by Steve Wyckoff and now the World
Economic Forum is saying he is set to
speak this afternoon. He has made up his
time. And really, we just keep talking
about how the message is going to be
twofold. Obviously, everyone is talking
about Greenland. And I'm sure the
president is going to bring it up. But
for him, the heart and soul of his
speech really needs to be the
affordability concerns
at home in America because for him the
North Star is November 3rd when it's the
midterm elections.
>> is the reason why the focus is so split
here. Yes, a lot of the US
administration is here in Davos,
Switzerland. But back in Washington,
D.C., we're also getting the Supreme
Court hearing arguments over President
Trump's attempt to fire Lisa Cook. Fed
Chair J. Powell is going to be sitting
at those hearings in support of her.
We've already heard some commentary from
Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent on this
exact issue earlier this morning. It
seems like this is very much in their
thought process as well.
>> He's saying Treasury Secretary Powell is
quote politicizing the Central Bank. He
went on to say that he's become
frustrated with the Fed for refusing to
do their own internal investigation. I'm
not sure why they would support Lisa
Cook. So, he is saying the fact that J.
Powell is going to the Supreme Court,
that is politicizing the Central Bank. I
think J. Powell would probably say,
"Well, you politicized this when you
delivered a subpoena to my office."
Either way, there is a swirling backdrop
of geopolitics in a very transactional
Davos. This is all about business at a
time when people are looking for deals
and business leaders are looking to
avoid getting roped into geopolitical
conversations that could potentially be
detrimental to their businesses. Right
now in markets, we are seeing a bit of a
reversal of what we saw yesterday.
Certainly, Japanese bonds are helping
that mood given the fact that we heard
some nice tone coming out of the Bank of
Japan and the second biggest bank in
Japan
agreeing to buy bonds. Right now, you
are seeing stocks higher, but just a
little bit. Right now, you are seeing
just minor gains across the board.
Really, just 2/10 of a percent for the
most part. When you take a look at the
bond space, 2s, 10s, and 30s, you can
see again a bid into all of these bond
issues, but just two basis points
earlier this morning. Now down just one
basis point on the 10-year yield. And
take a look at the precious metals. You
cannot keep them down even they've got
some dollar strength today. Precious
metals, gold, silver at new all-time
highs. Coming up this hour, we have an
incredible lineup. RBC
CEO Dave McKay, Gap CEO Richard Dixon,
and Lead Edge Capital Founder Mitchell
Green. As we await President Trump's
speech, deals are getting done. Business
leaders are engaged in rapid-fire client
meetings. We have the wonderful lineup
of guests today starting with the very
own CEO of the Royal Bank of Canada,
Dave McKay, who joins us here. Dave,
wonderful to see you. Thank you for
being with us.
>> It's great to be back. It's amazing a
year's gone by already.
>> Right? I mean, what's your impression so
far of this Davos? It feels very
different than previous ones.
>> It's more intense. There's more leaders
here than I think there's ever been.
Over 850 CEOs, 400 ministers, 65 heads
of state. So, there's been a lot of
dialogue already in the first kind of 48
hours. A lot of joint business
government leader dialogue around
investment. To your point, looking at
making deals, looking at co-investment.
Every country looking at diversifying
trade, bringing business leaders with
them to talk about co-investment or
whether it's manufacturing investment,
defense spend in Europe and Canada's
going up. A lot of discussions about how
do we spend 80 billion dollars in Canada
on defense. You know, what partners are
we at? How do we use that
that defense spending lever to attract
manufacturing investment in automotive,
energy investment. So, there's a lot of
grand bargain discussions going on
with business leaders with and I haven't
seen that before. And so, it's
different. It feels different. It's
transactional to you said, but it's
exciting at the same time. There's
opportunity here.
>> Well, you talked me about the excitement
and yet you are Royal Bank of Canada.
You are expanding in the United States
and right now there is a breakdown in
the relationship between these two
countries. How problematic is that for
you at a time where you have been
expanding in the United States and you
do see flows at least in travel going
the other direction a little bit?
>> You know, I think we're in this this
temporary world where we're trying to
figure out you know, how we're going to
trade going forward, but I I come back
to the core of USMCA.
Canada really helps America with
affordability. We make things in
Canadian dollars. We sell it to the US
at a you know, the US buys it at a 30%
discount with its automotive parts,
whether it's steel, aluminum, food and a
lot of our canola goes to the United
States and therefore we help keep prices
down in the US. And if the US were to
bring all of that back, it's
inflationary. You you shortage of labor
in the United States. So, as you look at
the core of USMCA,
it's good for America and I think that
gives me comfort that we will come to
an arrangement going forward recognizing
this is good for America. It's good for
Canada, obviously, but it's good for
America and that's important to the
president. There will be change. I don't
think it'll be the same agreement going
forward, but the core of it I think is
so important to both sides and that
gives me comfort that we have will
continue to trade. Canada and you heard
our Prime Minister's message. I'm sure
we'll talk about that. Um has to
diversify trade. I think we've relied on
trade to the US substantially, big part
of our economy and I think the
conversations that are happening before
Davos, after Davos, in Davos are very
much about here's what we're good at.
Can we find a grand bargain deal? Can we
Can we expand trade across multiple
countries with that's Europe, a lot of
discussion with South Asia and Asia, and
a lot of discussion with the Middle East
investing in Canada.
And what's different about Davos this
year? Honestly, Lisa, it's risk on
Canada.
>> Let's talk about the Prime Minister's
speech. The sharpest tone I've ever
heard from Mark Carney about Donald
Trump without mentioning Trump's name.
He's talking about a new world order
saying these middle countries if you're
not at the table prepare to get eaten.
Does that make it harder when you're
talking about things like watching the
USMCA trade deal? Do you think that the
relationship is going to become more
challenging between Canada and the
United States?
>> I think relationships are built value
exchange. And if there's good value
exchange and you both see a benefit to
that, then you're going to find the
right place.
So just as I said, there's great value
exchange. $400 billion go back and forth
across the border every year cuz there's
value.
We're the number one trade relationship
with 36 states.
Most of those are red states at the end
of the day. So when we think about the
importance of that relationship beyond
the federal level into the state level,
it's really important. So I think you
come back and you say
it's good for America, it's good for
Canada. That's a basis for exchange of
value and going forward. Having said
that, I think the Prime Minister is very
clear
that we haven't done our role in
defending ourselves. We haven't invested
enough of our GDP in defense and you've
seen that commitment to spend that
money.
We have to do that. We have to
increasingly defend ourselves and our
not just our economic security, it's our
physical security. We have to play a
bigger role in that. We have to defend
the Arctic and we have to invest in the
Arctic and it's a big part of the
commitment we've made to NATO, we've
made to the United States that you'll
see a greater investment from Canada. We
have to have dual use
investments, not just military but
commercial and economic investments in
the Arctic and Canada should play a role
in doing that. So you're seeing that's
was a big part of his speech yesterday.
And we we have to create scale. We're in
a world of scale. Businesses need scale,
countries need scale. And I think the
Prime Minister's message was we have to
continue to diversify, but diversify in
a way that you continue to build scale
in what you need. So, I think that's
what I took away from
>> says diversify, does it mean maybe a new
strategic partnership with China? Is
that what you take from the Prime
Minister?
>> You know, the Prime Minister was just in
China a week ago. And it was a very
important delegation that he he led to
China to kind of reset the relationship
after, you know, better part of a decade
where the relationship had separated.
And part of it was to to renew economic
ties and to agree on areas where we
definitely agree and to say these are
areas where we might not agree, but
let's focus on where we agree and where
we can build a future together. And I
think that was a very positive step. You
saw China make a commitment to resume
buying our canola oil. And that's a very
important market for canola oil. United
States and China are big markets.
We see that's a small part of our
automotive market, 3% to Chinese
imports. That's an affordability issue.
China will bring in affordable electric
vehicles. So, I think that's good for
Canadians at the end of the day. So, I
think
there's more to build on. And I think
it's part of diversifying across
multiple countries.
>> Okay. So, we've gone all this time
without talking about what you actually
have done. You just had a year that's
phenomenal. You had record revenues for
any Canadian bank ever. Uh and you have
grown tremendously. You beat all of your
targets. I'm just wondering, when you're
talking about diversifying businesses,
does it go to your business as well? Are
you expanding in places like China? Are
you still planning to expand in the
United States?
>> Our second home market is the United
States. We've grown wonderfully in the
United States. We just launched a whole
new treasury management platform in the
United States, RBC Clear, that's had a
great reception. Technology leap, we
brought in 25 billion dollars of new
money from US senior corporates, Fortune
kind of 500. So, the The States is our
second home market and we continue to
invest there. We lend significantly to
US corporates. We lend in the
mid-corporate space in the commercial
space, and we have the fifth largest
high net worth platform in the United
States. So, the US is very important to
us. It's serving Americans, helping
Americans grow. And I told the
administration already, and you know,
yesterday that, you know, we've invested
significantly in the US economy, and
we're part of the solution, and we feel
very welcome in the United States. So,
it's a it's a big part of our strategy.
To your point, our strategy has not
included China up until now uh for all
the reasons where we didn't have
significant diplomatic ties. We didn't
see the the basis for that investment,
and now I we have to review that. I
can't say how we would go back in.
Um but if the trade continues to
diversify and Canadian corporates invest
in China, then we will have to be part
of that. What I'm focused on now is the
Middle East.
Significant investment commitments from
the Middle East to Canada. I think one
of the themes of Davos is Middle East is
a great place to invest. Abu Dhabi,
Dubai, UAE on that side, Riyadh, and
Saudi Arabia. Significant commitments on
both sides, and you'll see a greater
presence from RBC in the Middle East as
well. So, yes, to your point, it's a
great question. You're seeing RBC become
a more globally connected bank because
Canada's going to become a more globally
connected country, and the US is already
an incredibly globally connected
country.
>> 20 seconds.
>> Yeah.
>> One word answer. Is this year going to
be better than last year in terms of
deals?
>> I'm We've entered the year very strongly
in the senior market side. I'm feeling
there's very good momentum. I don't want
to see it derailed. So, I'm very
positive about the year and the future.
I feel good. Yes.
>> wonderful
>> [laughter]
>> That's a wonderful way of not giving a
yes or no answer. RBC CEO Dave McKay
always a pleasure to have you. Thank you
for being with us. Coming up next, a Gap
CEO Richard Dickson coming to join us.
Uh we are also going to be getting
morning movers with Daily Burgers. We're
going to be talking about Netflix after
they reported earnings after the bell
yesterday. From New York, from London,
from Zurich, from the Alps, this is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
>> [music]
>> Bloomberg Surveillance from Davos,
Switzerland. Welcome back. We are here
with markets trying to retrace a little
bit of what they gave up yesterday. You
are seeing a bit of a bid into US
equities, but really fading
>> throughout the morning. Up just two
tenths of a percent. A bit of a bid into
bonds, but now 10-year yields down just
one basis points. A bit into the
precious metal space. This has been an
ongoing theme as we hit new record after
new record. And just a little bit of
dollar strength 117 on the euro dollar
cross. 3 hours away from the cash open
here. Are your morning movers with Danny
Burger. Danny.
>> Hey Lisa, we got Netflix earnings after
the bell yesterday and the numbers were
good. More subscribers, although it
doesn't necessarily have that number. Uh
but the issue for them was the cost.
[music] They say that in 2026 they're
going to spend 10% more than they spent
in 2025. Then you add to that the
acquisition of Warner Brothers
Discovery. So costs stack up. They say
it's necessary to invest in the
properties to get people to watch
Netflix, but those shares falling
[music] 6.7% in the pre-market this
morning. Elsewhere on the move to the
upside this morning is United Airlines.
Shares up 3 and a half percent. Uh much
like Delta, strong earnings thanks to
luxury and business travel. Both high
spenders in domestic and abroad did
well. That intercontinental travel still
looking good for them. The rewards
program also looking good. Uh the CEO
though did say uh that this was a
conservative outlook on their part.
Finally, Kraft Heinz. Those shares are
sinking in the pre-market trade. The
company registering shares being put up
for sale, potential sale by Berkshire
Hathaway. The amount of shares that are
being put up [music] would essentially
mean that Berkshire Hathaway is exiting
its entire stake in Kraft Heinz. Warren
Buffett himself had been really critical
of the fact that Kraft and Heinz will be
breaking up, but this would also be a
bold new move with Greg Abel the first
time at the helm of the company. Those
shares falling just under 5% in the
pre-market, Lisa.
>> Thank you so much, Danny. We are here
currently looking at some of the
retailers. Gap seeing a steady sales
rebound in its recent quarters led by
its namesake brand and Old Navy. We have
the CEO of Gap Inc., Richard Dixon here
on site looking like a poster child for
the Gap. You always do. You look
fabulous [laughter] as always. I want to
start with We've been talking about how
this Davos feels different. It is a
transactional Davos. This is one where
virtue signaling seems to have gone out
the window. And you're here talking
about your initiative to be sustainable
with water and your Gap Blue initiative
with Matt Damon. How much do you feel
like you're going against the grain
here?
>> You know, I think Gap as a company has
always prided itself on doing what's
right.
The origin story of our company was
bridging the generation gap. We've
evolved over the years to a purpose that
we believe is incredibly powerful, which
is bridging gaps to create a better
world. And identifying that as a really
important narrative in Davos, it's been
about a dialogue. And that's really what
Davos is about, having dialogue. And we
believe the context of the content here
for us has always been about purpose and
profit. There's not one without the
other. I mean, the more profitable we
are, the more purposeful we can be. The
more purposeful we are, the more
profitable we can be. And so, we think
of ourselves integrating both, and I
think that is the representation of our
company and here at Davos, we're doing
just that. I mean, you mentioned the the
initiative that we're doing with Matt
Damon and Gary White with water.org. We
created a campaign together called Gap
Blue inspired by the Red campaign,
which by the way, Gap was a founding
partner of. So, it is part of our
heritage, and we take a lot of pride in
that.
As you may know, water is an incredibly
important conversation around reduction,
recycle, reuse. It's scarce. What we
were incredibly inspired by is is this
stat where 2.1 billion people today
do not have access to clean or safe
water. 2.1 billion people. And so that
is a gap between those who have water
and those that need water. And we
believe Gap's on the forefront of
creating that conversation here,
soliciting more partners to get behind
it. We take a lot of pride in that
effort.
>> But don't you feel like this Davos feels
different? That there aren't as many
people who are interested in hearing
that message. And maybe it goes to the
sort of divide between generations. But
here people are looking to do business.
They want to get deals done. They want
to make money. They want to figure out
what makes sense. It's a much more sort
of practical, not touchy-feely type of
Davos. Don't you feel that in a really
concrete way?
>> I wouldn't disagree with that. But I do
think as we are in Davos, the topics of
conversations obviously minute to
minute, we're getting lots of different
updates in how the world changes. And
obviously there's a lot of business
leaders here. There's a lot of
dignitaries here, and government
leaders. And and it is a merge. You
know, it's a merge of all of that topic
and conversation. So while there's
dialogue, I think on multiple subjects,
it is true probably that the world of
sustainability has not necessarily been
the topic of conversation. But we at Gap
take a lot of pride in the integration
of that as part of our strategy.
We 50% of the world's GDP is dependent
on nature. We're partners with nature,
whether we like it or don't like it. And
so it is a really important part of the
dialogue. It's an important part of our
business strategy. We can't make the
great clothing that we do without water.
And if we're intending on growing our
business, well, we have to make sure
that there's water in the world. And
then that adds responsibility to what we
do. And
we're very, you know, I'd say
forthcoming around the fact that we're
making progress, but it's certainly not
perfection. And I think we're a champion
here this week at Davos.
>> Davos
>> is certainly a place for dialogue. Also
in the absurdity of it, I heard this
whole pitch from Gary White and Matt
Damon cuz I sat next to them randomly at
a dinner.
>> Okay.
>> And I'm curious to know, I remember that
Gap red campaign. It's also profitable.
It is a way to spark consumer excitement
and get people in. What are you actually
planning for the store?
>> Well, that that's a a good point because
I think done well, it drives relevance.
And relevance can drive revenue. And in
the context of that integration,
uh it it is one in the same, right? So,
the red campaign, which we were a
founding partner of, is a great example.
Uh taking a meaningful message that
resonates and then developing products
and partnerships and programs that bring
more awareness and then more revenue to
solve the problem.
Get Blue is a very similar methodology.
Um and it is a methodology to solve, if
you will, the water solution. It It's
not necessarily the solution, but it is
a methodology and a mechanism that we
think is going to be very powerful.
We're going to create a line of great
clothing, obviously, that will be
intended to drive more awareness, as
well as part of the proceeds will go to
help fund water.org. We've got amazing
partners lined up, Starbuck, Amazon, uh
Ecolab, uh and we're out here soliciting
more support for it. So, it will be a
meaningful, what we call, movement, uh
that will help solve the issues of our
day.
>> When it comes to relevance, right now,
the consumer has so many options, and we
continue to hear from business leaders
that the consumer is resilient. What are
you seeing at your stores?
>> We concentrate on doing the best job
that we can with great style, great
value, great product, great quality. Uh
it is our job, day in day out, to solve
and attract that consumer to our brands.
Uh it starts with product, of course,
but the narrative around that product is
what drives relevance. And so, we take a
lot of time as storytellers to tell our
brand stories. Uh and we're doing a good
job. I mean, it resonates. We had, you
know, as we reported last quarter, seven
consecutive quarters of comp growth, uh
led by Gap, which is our flat founding,
you know, flagship brand up 7% Uh and
that's again consistently delivering.
Old Navy, our largest brand, was up 6%.
Banana Republic on the scoreboards up up
in single digits as well. So So it's
resonating. The message is resonating
with our consumers. Our product is
resonating with consumers and ultimately
that can create a flywheel. Better
storytelling, better product, better
retail execution. Retail is detail.
Every detail matters. We hear every day,
you know, some good experiences and then
some places that we need to work on. So
we're always talking about progress, not
perfection, but it's working.
>> To build on what Anne-Marie's talking
about, the sort of choicefulness or
pickiness that people have because
[clears throat] of the greater focus on
affordability and the fact that there
has been a real erosion of that. We did
speak a number of months ago and you
were saying that people will pay for a
quality. Are you seeing difficulty
passing along prices, say, from tariffs
or from increased costs more generally
because of the price of commodities?
>> Well, I think, you know, consumers are
smart.
They see value. They know authenticity
and we pride ourselves on being, you
know, an authentic brand with great
price, great value, great great quality
and great style.
That's not easy, by the way, at scale
and certainly with all of the headwinds,
tariffs included, we and our teams are
doing a fantastic job
organizing around the consumer value
proposition. And so as you can imagine,
behind the scenes there's mitigation
strategies as we absorb tariffs. There's
the day-to-day expenses that we have to
consider running a business of our
scale, but with the consumer in mind all
day long, we're able to present a
portfolio of assortment of products that
are appealing to them.
And it is resonating. So the more that
we focus in on doing what's right by the
consumer
and we have the expertise to manage that
day-to-day and what we call control the
controllables. There are certain things
that are not in our control as we sit in
Davos,
but what we can control, we can execute
with excellence and deliver that
proposition to our consumers and our
shareholders.
>> To talk about the uncontrollable,
because it does seem like there's a huge
focus on geopolitics. How difficult is
it to adjust if the regime of tariffs is
shifting? If there isn't sort of a
stable backdrop that you know you have
to adapt to.
>> Look, it it's it creates complexity. Uh
and our company is, you know, in its
56th year and there have been lots of
different dynamics both in, you know,
politics political, you know, waves and
policies and various different uh
headwinds that we continuously have to
deal with. Um and again, we go back to
controlling the controllables. Um the
dynamics of doing business today have uh
are are quite complex. Uh we all wake up
in the morning and see the news and see
that we've got new subject matter to
deal with. Uh but it's really important
to stay steady and stay consistent and
in our case stay very focused on the
consumer. Uh and we've been doing a good
job of that. And so, again, headwinds
will continue to come, um but I think as
long as we have a strong team, we really
focus on our strategic priorities with
the the right due diligence and execute
with excellence, good things happen and
you get that flywheel that continues.
>> Richard Dickson, wonderful to have you
here. Thank you so much. Richard Dickson
is the CEO of Gap Inc. Right now, let's
head over back to New York and get you
an update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your Bloomberg Brief
with Vanya Quinn. Vanya.
>> Good morning, Lisa. President Donald
Trump on his way to Davos after more
than 2-hour delay, the president's plane
had to return to Joint Base Andrews
shortly after taking off due to a
mechanical issue. President Trump was
eventually able to get on a replacement
[music] plane. The president is still
expected to speak at 8:30 a.m. Eastern,
2:30 [music] p.m. Davos time.
Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent says
he's not sure why Fed Chair Jay Powell
is supporting Fed Governor Lisa Cook.
Powell is planning to attend today's
Supreme Court hearing where the justices
will hear oral arguments [music] over
President Trump's bid to fire Cook over
alleged discrepancies on mortgage
applications.
>> [music]
>> Bostic says Powell is quote politicizing
the Fed.
The European Union is ready to strike
back against President Trump's Greenland
tariffs. EU President Ursula von der
Leyen sharing the block will back
[music] Greenland with a massive
European investment surge and strengthen
its security arrangements. Von der Leyen
went on to warn [music] current rhetoric
is creating a quote dangerous downward
spiral between allies.
And that is your Bloomberg Brief,
[music] Lisa.
>> Thank you so much, Ivana. Up next, the
US versus China.
>> China is doing a lot more on energy,
which is which is building out a huge
amount of energy so that it can support
its AI business. It's not just
competition from within the US, but it's
also competition from China.
>> [music]
[music]
>> We are getting into the close big event
of the Davos of this day. We have of
course that speech coming up in just
about an hour and a half, I believe.
President Trump will be speaking to the
World Economic Forum. Right now, Marcus,
you are seeing a bit of a bid into
equities after yesterday's sell-off,
although not necessarily retracing the
losses. We're seeing just a gain barely
of one 0.1% for the S&P. You are seeing
a bit of a bounce, but barely down just
a basis point. You are seeing [music]
that bid into gold persist up 2% hitting
yet another all-time high. Under balance
this morning, the US versus China.
>> China is doing a lot more on energy,
which is which is building out a huge
amount of energy so that it can support
its AI business. They're more focused on
applications as opposed to foundation
models. But that said, I mean, we saw
Deep Seek. [music] So to my point about
the ability of all these firms to earn
the kinds of profits they do, it's not
just competition from within the US, but
it's also competition from China.
>> That was former IMF first deputy
managing director Gita Gopinath on the
rising competition between the United
States and China. Joining us now,
Mitchell Green, the founder of Lead Edge
Capital and a seasoned investor in
Chinese markets and in big tech just
broadly. One of the seed investors in a
lot of the big names that we talk about
today. Thank you so much for being with
us today, Mitchell.
>> Thanks, having.
>> Do you think that there is a market
delineation between how far China has
gone with the energy and some of the
specific areas that they've developed
versus the US? Do you think they're
getting an edge right now?
>> They're not getting hurt, I can tell you
that. I think there's uh
it's interesting how much uh
investor sentiment has changed actually
in the last even year towards China.
Like a year ago, if you look at Alibaba,
I think the stock's up 90% or something
in the last year. Tencent, traded on the
Hong Kong exchange, is up like 50%.
These things traded in the teens
multiples.
And I think people are realizing that,
you know, China could be a big growth
area over the next decade.
>> One thing you've been vocal about is
evaluations are getting a bit stretched
in the United States, uh particularly in
non-big tech. The big tech names these
few said in the past are going to be
fine. It's sort of in the other places.
Do you feel the same about Chinese tech
companies or do you think that the
valuations still have a far away to go
before they catch up to their US
counterparts?
>> There is definitely still a discount in
Chinese equities
um relative to American counterparts for
sure. And I think there is. It is you
know,
the one challenge with a lot of the
Chinese internet companies, Baidu, um
Tencent, Alibaba, is they frankly just
don't grow that fast right now. The
economy in China is not doing
particularly great. I think that's
pretty well known. But it what's what's
crazy is like a company like ByteDance,
it I think if something like that went
public, and who knows, I'm sure it'll go
at some point. We obviously are
investors in it. But like the growth of
that company, I think would like
astonish people. And like I probably
would be a catalyst for getting people
excited about Chinese equities again.
>> Is it just an issue of valuations or is
there something endemic in the way that
China is developing their AI versus the
way that the United States is developing
their AI that makes you more interested
maybe right now on evaluation basis in
what's going on in China?
>> The stuff we've done in China is
gigantic businesses, ByteDance, Alibaba,
Ant, Tencent Music. So, I will say this,
that when I read that a little while
back that the Chinese weren't able to
get a bunch of these chips
and then yet DeepSeek came out and did
not surprise us at all. These people are
like highly intuitive, they work their
living butts off, they're like really
creative people and they solved a lot
they they cut the training costs with a
massive amount with using like software
engineering and and I think it's I think
it's the early stages of I think what's
going to happen is
and look, we're not an expert on these
models like Chip on a stick. We could
have invested in you know Anthropic and
OpenAI early and by the way, the
secondary markets are so robust now. We
could have sold and made an absolute
fortune. Uh
I think
clearly at Davos
there is something happening with a lot
of countries around the world realizing
like, you know, if you're a European
company now, you could go use a Chinese
model um and there is a lot of these
countries around the world are trying to
find alternatives to US companies.
That's going to take a very long time
and hopefully we can course correct it
and everything, but I actually think
like
more US aggravate you know, agitation
around the world will benefit like
Chinese smaller Chinese AI companies and
more people are willing to say, hey, you
know what? You know, in the UK, you
know, 5 years ago, 3 years ago I wasn't
willing to use DeepSeeker some Chinese
model like today I will and it's a
fraction of the cost and I do think that
models like DeepSeek and others in China
and in the US are going to drive pricing
down for all companies leveraging these
models a lot. Like we think pricing is
going to fall a tremendous amount.
>> So, it sounds like the tension between
Washington and Beijing makes you want to
lean in to China instead of being scared
and
>> Yeah, yeah. Look, I mean, you tend to
make lots of money when, you know, be be
greedy when people are fearful and the
reverse. Uh you know, we bought a lot of
ByteDance stock a year and a half ago
when people you know, that what we
thought were extremely attractive
multiples to like the growth rates.
>> When you say deep seek is happening
without these US chips, do you actually
think it is without US chips or do you
think that potentially
>> no idea. Yeah,
>> [laughter]
>> is is the short answer.
Uh I do think like
we were we were we were like very we
were we were investors in Alibaba for
like for a very long time and I will
tell you that what those what those
engine engineers in China can do and you
can just read all this data like number
of PhDs, number of like patents being
authored and all this stuff. Like China
is accelerating in a lot of these
different areas and it doesn't surprise
me. They're also trying to build a a
giant semiconductor business as well
right now.
>> When it comes to the AI race, do you
think they're on par? I mean, that's
that's almost how Tencent Wang put it to
me or do you think actually China might
be ahead of the US?
>> Jensen would be the person to ask and if
he says they're on par or close to par,
it wouldn't surprise I wouldn't bet
against him, put it that way. I wouldn't
have bet against American ingenuity as
well, but like the Chinese it's funny.
The if you look at like a Tencent or a
ByteDance and they think the rise of
super apps and how people shop and like
live shopping and all these things, a
lot of
internet I mean, just think the tech I
all that came out of China. Like a lot
of consumer the US used to lead in like
the trends for social for internet. A
lot of those trends are now coming out
of China.
>> One thing that's created some skepticism
recently and I know for you as well has
been just valuations in the US. We keep
looking at that.
Open AI in particular particularly given
some of their funding rounds and some of
their dependence on some of their
customers to give them funding to buy so
the circular funding etc. Do you think
that that's kind of a linchpin that
people are looking past that potentially
it has a systemic risk
effect in the US tech economy that
people are overlooking?
>> Howard Mark said when it looks like a
bubble, smells like a bubble, it
probably is a bubble and
every like period of like tech
exuberance
the PC revolution
the internet bubble in 99 or 2000 led to
the massive changes which is what AI is
going to AI is going to be incredible.
It's probably people people are going to
overestimate it in the near term and
they're going to underestimate in the
long term. We could have sat here if I
was sitting here with you in 2000
when we were in high school but you know
we wouldn't have been sitting here and
none of us would have talked about
social media. Today it is like a $3
trillion
market cap category. The same thing is
going it will happen with AI and in
terms of
look without you know going into the
details of AI topic or an open AI there
will be winners and there are probably
going to be
you know spectacular losers as well.
You have to you know some of these like
circular deals sure start to look funny.
You know I think the party continues on
until one of these companies has
problems raising capital but they sure
haven't had any problem with it since.
I'm what surprises me
you know you'll hear if you'll talk to
bankers and things like that
the IPO market is great. Like look at
Medline. The stock is up 50% and it was
a big IPO. It's a 50-60 billion dollar
company.
I I am I would think that in the next 6
to 12 months we see one of these things
go public. You'll then probably see a
whole wave of other ones go public.
And then you know when you start to see
the junk go public you then probably
realize you're near the top.
>> How conservative are you being right
now? Are you deploying all your cash?
Are you holding more?
>> We've been pretty conservative. We've
taken a lot of our capital at our fund
and invested it outside of Silicon
Valley. A lot of like bootstrap
companies. We're investing aggressively
in software right now. I mean of markets
have been destroyed. Everybody thinks
companies like Workday are going to
disappear. I mean it's it's completely
silly. It has a It's a 99% growth dollar
retention business. People think
Salesforce is going to disappear. You
know, like I've You know, I've tried to
use these cursors and and it's like what
people don't And I'm not a coder. What
people don't understand is these
software companies have giant
distribution networks. R&D These
companies are not building
semiconductors.
>> Yeah.
>> It's not actually that hard to build it,
but it's hard to get the customers,
service the customers, add-on products,
and things like that.
>> Your business is investing in private
equity and private shares in small
companies that are going to potentially
grow significantly. How much you also
investing in public equities?
>> We take a portion of our capital and
invest in private equities. Given the
sell-off over the last few weeks in
software companies,
uh we are buying public stocks right
now. We are buying public software
stocks today.
>> Much more so than probably
>> than we were a month and a half ago.
Yeah, for sure. Stuff's cheap. I mean,
there are mid small mid-cap software
companies that that have 99% growth
dollar retention that trade at 12 times
EBITDA and are like the stock prices are
lower today than they were 5 years ago.
Now, maybe 5 years ago they were
overvalued, but that's really cheap.
>> Mitchell Green, wonderful to have you
here. Thank you so much.
>> Appreciate it.
>> Uh really good to have you. That was
Lead Edge Capital Founder Mitchell Green
here talking about artificial
intelligence, one of the three prongs
here at Davos. It's AI, it's deals,
deals, deals, and then of course it's
the geopolitics, which brings us back to
what we're going to be hearing on the
main stage with Donald Trump.
>> That's right. 2:30 local time we'll be
hearing from the President of the United
States. It was supposed to be derailed
cuz he had a little bit of trouble
taking off, but nope, it's not. He is on
time and that's what everyone really is
waiting for and when they want to hear
from the President because many people
want to know what is going on with
Greenland, what does he have to say
about affordability, and they're just
lining up to potentially also have a
meeting with him.
>> Yeah, that's the other thing. It's There
seems to be an increasing influence of
governments in private businesses. And
private businesses are very aware of
this and very much on tenterhooks
waiting for this conversation because
they know it will influence them.
>> Well, especially when the United States
is taking equity stakes in a number of
companies.
>> Yeah, this is something that we're going
to be watching. Coming up in the next
hour, we've got TCW CEO Katie Koch.
We've got BHP CEO Mike Henry on a huge
rush to all of the mining products that
build up the ecosystem of AI. GE Vernova
CEO [music] Scott Strazic and Republican
Senator Tom Tillis who's been making a
lot of waves. We are seeing a bit of a
bid back into equities after yesterday's
sell-off, a question of the calming down
of markets [music] by the Bank of Japan
and frankly by a big Japanese bank
potentially buying those bonds. It seems
like they're kind of the tail that's
wagging the dog right now. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
>> [music]
[music]
>> The US must maintain leadership around
artificial intelligence.
>> We're in an inflection point for AI.
>> Energy is a key driver of everything
that we're going to be doing to drive
this AI race.
>> What you're seeing is the construction
of the supply side of the AI economy.
>> Productivity I think will go up for
sure. I just whether that translates
into profits is what I'm questioning.
>> Bloomberg Surveillance live from Davos
with Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Anne [music] Marie Hoardern.
>> Live from Davos, Switzerland for our
audience worldwide. Good morning. Good
morning. The second hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now and the
focus is just one thing. Later on this
afternoon, an address by the President
of the United States which is going to
shake up this forum. The Europeans on
edge and yesterday the gloves came off
and it wasn't just the French. It was
the Canadians as well. The reserved
Prime Minister Mark Carney being very,
very blunt about a new world order,
calling it not a transition, but a
rupture. What does it mean for financial
markets? 2% from all-time highs on the
S&P 500 and Lisa credit spread still at
historical tight.
>> Yeah, this isn't necessarily a wholesale
dumping. However, this morning we had
seen a bid into equities. We had seen a
bid into bonds. That is fading as the
session grows older, just turning
negative in the S&P 500. Now down about
2/10 of a percentage. Just highlights
the skittishness right now in committing
to US assets among this much volatility
in some of the geopolitical headlines.
>> to say before we get deep in the sell of
America stuff,
it's curious to me that we wake up this
morning talking about sell America after
a 6-7 basis point move at the long end
of the US curve when we saw a 20 basis
point plus move in Japan. Shouldn't they
have been the headlines today? Like sell
Japan? Isn't that the headline?
>> I think people don't care if it's sell
Japan because yes, it's sell Japan but
for fiscal concerns. And I think the
real question is how much is it sell
America because of the unreliability in
policy coming out of the United States.
It clearly is igniting some pushback by
the administration saying a couple
people are speculating. And then of
course your great conversation yesterday
with Sergio Ermotti saying there is no
alternative to Treasury. So try to
diversify away from the United States
assets and good luck to you.
>> The number one question I fielded so far
being here in Davos from people on the
outside calling in. They'll say, "So
tell us, what's the vibe like? What's
the vibe like?"
>> [music]
>> And my response to that is pretty
simple. Draw a very fat line between the
vibe that European officials are
ultimately communicating and the vibe
you get from business leaders. European
officials on edge, got that drama,
understand it. Americans [music] and
global business leaders still looking to
America to invest, still bullish on the
US economy. I did a panel about an hour
ago. Had several business executives and
economists as well and asked them,
"Okay, we've talked 45 minutes about the
risk on the horizon. Let's boil it down
to one thing. Is the S&P 500 going to be
higher or lower by the end of the year?"
What did everyone say?
>> Up higher.
>> The
is going to be higher by the end of the
year. So, what's changed? And are we
mispricing the crazy? And how crazy is
this afternoon going to be?
>> What has just changed is the rhetoric.
The president is obviously coming here
with a determination to have some sort
of negotiation or deal when it comes to
Greenland, something he's been talking
about since 2019. Obviously, the
rhetoric is incredibly hot. You have
[music] it feeling like for the
Europeans an existential threat, but
business leaders are just almost looking
through. They view all of this as
they've pretty much been trained. All
those reports about Trump wanting to
leave NATO in the first term. Actually,
Europe's spending on collective defense.
All that report of all these crazy high
tariff rates. Guess what? At the end of
the day, it wasn't new rules of
engagement. It was actually just the
start of a negotiation, and I think
that's what everyone is
taking it here. You see a lot of people
roll their eyes. They say it's a
distraction, and the Treasury Secretary
says, "Take a deep breath." I think
there's going to be an off-ramp.
>> And let's take a deep breath and check
out the price action. Lisa mentioned
some of it. Equity futures were positive
in the last 10-15 minutes, just rolling
over a little bit, down by a few tenths
of 1%. Coming up this hour, we'll catch
up with the TCW CEO, David Kotch, the
BHP CEO, Mike Henry, and North Carolina
Senator Thom Tillis with a few things to
say about central bank independence a
little bit later. We'll be getting this
out with President Trump preparing to
deliver a special address at the World
Economic Forum right here in Davos,
Switzerland. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall
stands by with more. Tyler, the
president had a bit of a delay, but we
understand now he's on schedule.
>> Right exactly. Good morning, John. We
are expecting President Trump to take
the stage there in Davos still at 8:30
a.m. Eastern time. It really feels like
domestic and foreign policy are about to
collide because the White House had
already previewed that the president's
remarks are supposed to be focused on
affordability as officials say that he
will roll out in more detail his plans
to reduce housing costs in particular.
That includes a new proposal to allow
Americans to pull from their 401(k)s in
part for a down payment on a home
without penalty, but we're really
expecting him to also hit on some of
that more populist economic messaging
that we've heard from him in recent
weeks. Hit on those proposals we already
know, right? Like capping credit card
interest rates or the fact that
yesterday before he got on that plane to
come to Davos, he signed a new executive
order aimed at limiting institutional
investors from buying single-family
homes. Though worth mentioning, it does
fall short of any new regulations.
That's the domestic side of things, but
it is going to be hard to ignore the
geopolitical tensions that have been
flaring as President Trump has
downplayed threats from Europe that they
could pull out of the US EU trade pact
or issue their own retaliatory tariffs
if the US does follow through with the
threat of a 10% levy by February 1st
against those countries that have
rallied support around Greenland. Now, I
will say our own analysts at Bloomberg
Economics say they see a higher
probability that President Trump is
going to ease rather than escalate
tensions when it comes to Greenland. And
John, that is partly because after the
president gives these remarks, he is
expected to have a series of meetings on
the sidelines there in Davos, where we
may be able to glean some more details
on if there is a potential off-ramp,
whether that be US military assets
moving into the region, getting more
access, or some sort of economic
cooperation agreement, because President
Trump himself says he thinks the US and
NATO will emerge happy, in his words,
from these discussions despite what has
been grave concerns from our allies in
recent days.
>> Tánaiste Candle with the latest in
Washington. Tánaiste, thank you. That
address just a few hours away. Let's get
the view on Wall Street. TCW CEO Katie
Koch joins us now for more. Katie, good
morning. Good to see you.
>> Good morning. Happy to be with you guys.
>> Thank you for being here. I was going
back over what you said 12 months ago.
>> Oh, good.
>> Don't worry, it's all good stuff.
>> [laughter]
>> Everybody was so bold up on America, US
exceptionalism. You were slightly more
reserved about things. Give us an update
on where you stand now.
>> Yes, so we all know this the consensus
at this conference is notoriously
incorrect. And actually, someone
explained why to me earlier this week,
which I thought was interesting. They
said because this is a gathering of
CEOs, and by definition we're very
optimistic, we're up into the right
people. They said they should change
this to a gathering of just CFOs, and
then we'll get a very different which I
was like, oh, there's some wisdom in
that. But we we did we're a little bit
more cautious than everyone else. I
would say this, I just don't think we
had an edge on calling whether this was
going to be a great year of US hegemony.
This is looking back to 12 months ago.
What we did know was that even if that
was true, all of it was already priced
into markets in our view. And so we
entered the the year 15% underweight
credit. And then as we know, we got the
volatility. And as an update on that,
the day after liberation day, we stepped
up and we bought 6 plus billion dollars
of credit, closed the gap cuz spreads
had widened.
And that was very impactful for our
portfolios. It led us to have 80% of our
fixed income portfolios in the 26% or
better. So we're just, you know, we wait
for those moments of trying to think
different, wait for those moments of
volatility and lean in.
>> April was certainly one of those
moments. And in April you read the
headlines, we all did. Some of us wrote
them. It was about sell America,
[laughter]
sell bonds, and ultimately you saw a
weaker dollar off the back of that. It's
interesting to me that you see a 6-7
basis point move on a 10-year Treasury,
and we're back to that story all over
again. How do you think about the
potential for diversifying away from US
assets in the months and years ahead?
>> I [clears throat] want to I think this
is an important question. My ultimate
answer is I think there is going to be
some marginal move away. I'd like to
talk a little bit about Europe first,
how I think they're going to react to
the current dialogue, if they're going
to react to it, and then the broader
investment community. So if we start
with Europe, they have two options here
for leverage. The first is the
anti-coercion, which you guys are
obviously well aware of, and that let's
just call that trade, slowing trade
dramatically. The second is that they
can dump US assets, and they do own 40%.
They're of the foreign ownership of the
US bond market is European. So they in
theory have a lot of leverage. Will they
use it? I think that's highly unlikely
cuz number one, it would be
self-defeating. It would it would create
damage to themselves. And number two,
you gave that quote from Sergio before,
currently there's not a lot of great
alternatives. But let's broaden it out
to the investment community and think
short and long term. So, for the broader
investment community, I have been
meeting with the world's leading asset
owners here and all throughout the year.
And I would say they are looking to
diversify away from US assets.
And I would kind of describe it as a
quiet quitting of of US bonds. I don't
think there's going to be a massive
announcement. I just think they're going
to look for opportunities to diversify
away.
From a short-term perspective, what
happened last night cuz you asked about
last night, I want to follow up on that.
I mean, it's called sell USA cuz we had
the dollar sell off, the bond market
sell off, and equities. That's not a
good day in the [laughter] US markets
when that happens. A day doesn't make a
trend, so we have to see how that plays
out. If it continues, this
administration will get will will get it
back on track. Why do I think that?
There's a lot of reasons, but a main one
would be US voters care more about lower
rates than Arctic security, I think. I
haven't pulled that, but that would be
my guess. And so, they will likely get
it back on track. What we're going to
get in our view is more volatility, and
that's great for us as asset managers.
From a long-term perspective, I do think
you're going to see this this phenomenon
I call quiet quitting and stepping away
from the bond market. We can talk about
that cuz I think there's a lot of
interesting things happening there.
>> So, let's build on that. What does that
mean in terms of how high yields could
go, what type of haven or not the bond
market really provides, and whether you
can start to trade on that if that is a
longer term phenomenon now.
>> Yeah, so I would why are they doing
that? Why are they looking to diversify?
There's a push factor, and I think
there's a pull factor. The push factor
has been pretty well reported on, which
is the fact that they're overexposed to
the US cuz the US has outperformed for a
for a time. We're highly indebted as and
this is a fixed income comment, we're
highly indebted, Uh um the currency
people think could be weak, and we have
a lot of policy uncertainties. So,
that's what would make people kind of
want to move on. The pull factor, which
people talk less about, but I think is
super compelling, is that global
diversification in fixed income markets
is actually valuable for the first time
in a long time. So, John talked about uh
uh I think you said this on air, but we
were talking about the fact that people
sold Treasuries, they also sold JGBs. Um
that is true. Um now, that caused
spreads to widen out, uh actually at the
very longest end, up to 50-60 basis
points. This is the the highest yield
we've had in Japanese bonds in my whole
career. So, I actually think the
overnight selling of US Treasuries was
to buy some of these JGBs. I know that
cuz that's what TCW has done over the
last 24 hours. We came in our global
portfolios, we were underweight Japan,
and we used this dislocation as an
opportunity to step into the Japanese
market and close 80% of that position.
So, I know that other people are doing
that, and I can make the argument for
Japan, I can make it for parts of
Europe, I can make it for parts of
emerging markets, that there's just
better relative value. Um and that is
the pull factor that I think we'll
continue to see play out. And why I'm
saying quietly is cuz sophisticated
investors, when they are in a position
that they are think is mature or they
want to work out of, they usually don't
scream it from the rooftops, right? They
quietly will move away from that. And I
I think we're going to see more of that.
>> This is the sovereign debt side, that
maybe the sovereign debt side of US
markets looks less attractive. Is it the
same story when it comes to risk assets,
when it comes to credit, when it comes
to equities, when it comes to some of
the momentum that we hear from the
business executives that we're speaking
to here at this uh forum?
>> Yeah, I I do think um it will be true of
broad credit as well as equity markets.
I want to say though, we still see a lot
of upside opportunity in US markets too.
I just think you have to be very
selective about where to look for that.
Obviously, people are extremely excited
about AI here. I'm kind of scared to
talk about it cuz you've probably done
that a lot already on this program. I
have a lot of views on that.
Um and so we are invested in that. We
actually started investing in AI. We
launched a strategy 10 years ago. So
we've been in this space for a long
time. I would say one of my observations
here that's a little bit more balancing
on AI is that it's very clear that the
people most excited about it are the
tech companies.
Um but they have to sell that to
someone. And in the CEO community at all
these roundtables, um I think there's
enthusiasm
to to do it, but there is a lot of
friction to get to be a true enterprise
user of this.
Um and I what I mean by that is that you
have to reimagine workflows and org
charts and actually people have to be
willing to disrupt themselves. And so
there is a lot of friction. Yes, the
technology is amazing. As I said, we've
been focused on it for a long time. It's
going to transform the world. I really
believe all of that. Massive revenue
opportunity. I just think it may take
longer to fully realize it on an
enterprise basis than other people do.
What we are super excited about right
now is the power transformation that's
supporting AI. And so 3 years ago we
launched an ETF PWRD, a power ETF,
that's investing in the power
transformation in the US. The um
generation, the transmission, the
storage. And why are we doing that?
Because power in the US has is going
from a sector that basically had no
growth for the last 20 years to
something that we think will double in
growth out by 2050. And when any sector
of the economy does that, that actually
generally brings strong returns behind
it. And here's the good news about
power. You get this tailwind of AI's
part of it. It's the electrification of
everything. And then also that we're
reshoring supply chains. That's creating
constraints. You can invest in those
themes in utility companies, right? So
let People aren't talking about
utilities here, right? They're talking
about AI, but that's a way that you can
actually really benefit from it. And if
you look at that ETF last year, it
performed a couple of points short of
Nvidia, outperformed all the Mag 7, and
parts of the tech sector. So, this is
like the picks and shovels. There might
be other ways to approach these themes.
>> This is also an important theme for the
president in a midterm election year
when it comes to power and electricity
prices.
>> Do you see that as a tailwind when the
United States and the president of the
United States make something a priority?
[clears throat]
>> I I do and I also think affordability is
going to continue to to dominate as a
topic and that is something that we have
to solve in bringing more supply to the
power market. And there's a a real
debate that's going to continue with
that and I think it's going to
create challenges for some of these AI
companies in scaling because the country
is going to want to deliver affordable
electricity to to to Americans.
>> You've given us a lot to unpack. My
takeaway, buy Japan.
>> That's exactly right.
>> That's [laughter] me, 100%. To me the
headline is that
The headline to me was in the past 24
hours TCW is moving in the cold last
night, you
I feel like [laughter] the headline is
invest with TCW or not.
That's why that's why that's why I feel
like the headline is
>> Who worked terminals everywhere?
>> There you go.
>> She wrote her own headline.
>> Katie, thank you. Good to see
>> It's always fun to be with you guys.
>> Thank you very much.
>> Katie Costa, the TCW CEO. Let's get an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over to
Vanya Quinn for more. Hey, Vanya.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. President Trump's
special envoy says he'll travel to
Moscow tomorrow with Jared [music]
Kushner to continue Russia-Ukraine peace
deal talks.
>> The president is focused on that peace
deal. It's a very, very important
important part of his agenda. The
Russians have invited us to come.
And that's a significant statement from
them. I think everybody [music] is
embedded in the process and wants to see
a peace deal happen.
>> Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy
was planning to go to Davos for possible
talks with President Trump but said he
wouldn't come unless there were
agreements [music] to be signed on
security guarantees.
Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang is to travel to
China later this month as he looks to
reopen [music] the country's market for
the company's AI chips. Sources telling
us here at Bloomberg Wang will be headed
to company parties ahead of Lunar New
Year.
>> [music]
>> It's unclear if Wang plans to meet with
Chinese officials.
Larry Fink, the interim co-chief [music]
of WEF, is thinking about a venue change
for the flagship event. On a post on
LinkedIn, he mentioned Detroit, [music]
Dublin, Jakarta, and Buenos Aires as
possible future sites. Relocating the
event would be a blow to Switzerland,
which has benefited from the forum being
held in the Alps for decades.
And that is your Bloomberg Brief. John.
>> Hi Vonnie, thank you. More from Vonnie
in about 30 minutes time. Up next,
betting on the US.
>> The US is is the strongest economy in
the world, with the one with the highest
level of innovation. Right now it's a
little bit bumpy, but uh I would say
that uh I wouldn't really bet against
the US.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Live from Davos, Switzerland this
morning. Good morning to you all. The
main address a little bit later this
afternoon from the president of the
United States. Typically, we look at the
price action at a time like this on any
given morning, and I'll say something
like, you know, we'll see if this
sticks. I've got no idea if this price
action sticks because I've got no idea
what the president's about to say later
on this afternoon. Equity futures rolled
over about 30 minutes ago. They're now
down by a few tenths of 1% following
yesterday's sell-off. And I have to say,
there's no buying stepping into this
equity market, [music] at least not big
buying, so far this morning.
>> Yeah, and frankly, you're not seeing a
big buying step into the bond market,
either. So, either there you're seeing a
little bit of calm there. Same story
again, all could be very much shaken up
in just a couple hours time.
>> So, there is a big divide between
European officials who are very bearish
about the situation at the moment and
American CEOs, and for that matter,
global business leaders. On the Savannah
this morning, betting on the US.
>> Diversifying away from America is
impossible. I think that
in in any major asset allocation, one
could probably think about having an
overweight or underweight, but
diversifying away from the US
and also from the dollar is a quite
dangerous bet. The US is the strongest
economy in the world, [music] the one
who has the highest level of innovation.
Right now is a little bit bumpy, but I
would say that
I wouldn't really bet against the US.
>> That was the UBS CEO Sergio Ermotti in
the last 24 hours or so. To catch up
with another major business leader, I'm
pleased to say that joining us now is
Mike Henry, the CEO of BHP, a
multinational mining company, in fact
the biggest on the planet. Mike, it's
good to see you, sir.
>> Great to be here.
>> I'm sure you're happy metals are
all-time highs. We've been talking about
it on Bloomberg Surveillance repeatedly.
Copper higher. It's not just copper,
it's base metals across the board. Is
there pressure building to find more
supply and what's coming online?
>> Well, so I look, I think it's been that
pressure to find new supply that's
underpinned the price escalation that
we've seen certainly in copper. This is
something we've been talking about for
years. You know, we talk about the fact
that copper demand is ubiquitous, used
in all walks of the economy. You layer
in on top of that the energy transition,
renewables very copper intensive, and
data centers. So, data centers, your
previous guest was talking about how
energy intensive they are. That requires
more copper. Yeah, copper is getting
harder to find. Deposits are smaller,
lower grade, deeper. BHP starts as the
world's largest copper producer and
we've grown by 30% in the past 3 years.
We have four big growth prospects ahead
of us including one in the in in in the
US.
>> We've got it, ready to go in Arizona. I
believe Resolution Copper. I talk about
it on the show so often. So, why is it
taking so long to get that joint venture
moving and get the copper out of the
ground?
>> Look, so it's held up under a
administrative injunction currently. So,
the I can't speak highly enough of the
support that we've seen from the
administration. So, the administration,
be it Secretary Bergum, Secretary
Wright, President Trump, have been very
keen to get more mining and processing
going in the US because they understand
the importance of critical mineral
supply chain resilience. And of course
it would be it would support the US
economy and specifically the Arizona
economy as well. So we're all ready to
go,
but we have to let the you know the the
legal process take its take its course.
>> How long has it taken? More than 10
years?
>> It's taken a long time.
>> Yeah, I mean I guess I can you just
quickly put a bow on that and say is it
going to be expedited in a serious way?
Could we see it in the next say year or
two?
>> It's very It's very hard to predict. We
were almost there
a few months ago, but it's been held up
for a little bit longer. We remain
optimistic that that it will ultimately
be a project that that goes ahead. It
could supply 25% of the US's copper
demand for decades. So this is this is a
pretty significant project, one of the
best undeveloped copper deposits
globally. And from a BHP perspective,
it's but one of four major copper growth
projects in the portfolio.
>> You sound like the administration has
been really helping you and your
business. At the same time, there's
potentially more tariffs coming down the
pipeline when it comes from this
administration. How do you navigate that
environment?
>> So look, it is a more volatile uncertain
environment than it has been in in in
the past. But from a mining sector
perspective, you know, 5 years ago it
would have been hard to get airtime
for mining companies globally. There
wasn't a lot of interest in mining as a
sector. If anything, there was a lot of
pushback on mining. Where I think
there's been a growing awareness of just
how important metals and minerals are to
the world. Continuity economic growth,
economic well-being being of billions,
energy transition and the digital
transformation. And so
broad-brush support now that we're
seeing certain strong support in the US,
but support in other countries as as
well. That's something we should all
welcome. But of course there's going to
be uncertainty that we need to navigate
along the way. The tariffs aren't
impacting BHP directly in any big way
because we only have about 3% of our
revenue in the US
currently, but it's something we do keep
an eye on.
>> You have to acknowledge that Mike,
there's been a change in management in
the last 10 years or so, and it was
forced by investors. There was a switch
from volume to to value, to discipline.
Is there a little bit more of a push now
to get back to a bit more volume? How do
you manage the discipline alongside the
increased supply?
>> Look, so so it is all about value. Now
we've been very deliberate in reshaping
the BHP portfolio and this is after a
decade of being very disciplined when it
comes to capital allocation. Uh we've
had license from shareholders to reshape
the portfolio in a way that makes BHP
more
ready for for the future and a big part
of that has been growth in copper and in
potash, a fertilizer that's needed for
sustainable agriculture. So
we've been you know pretty successful on
that front over the past number of years
and we're looking forward to executing
these big growth projects
>> ahead of us. He got South 32, that was a
spin-off of about 10 years ago.
>> It was simplifying the portfolio so it
was
>> So the reason I'm bringing up South 32
is because I'm wondering what you'll do
with the coal assets, the iron ore
assets of BHP as well. Is it something
you might be thinking about? Some echoes
of that decision back then?
>> So we always have to have the discipline
of
thinking about what the right portfolio
is but we believe that the diversified
model holds value. We're running the
best iron ore business, our best
performing iron ore business in in in
the world generating strong margins and
then our growth focus is really in
copper and potash and that model allows
us to have a very strong balance sheet
and the fund growth through the cycle
which we see as a differentiator for us.
>> Mike Henry as always. Let's catch up
again soon. A lot to talk about. I keep
bringing up Resolution Copper. It's
right there.
>> I know this is the frustration.
>> the solution.
>> Huge copper
just resource in the United States.
Regulations.
Different red
>> Secretary Burham and Secretary Wright
seem keen to get the regulations though
pulled.
>> I know. They want to do something about
it and Mike seems to be happy about the
progress and let's see if we make more
progress in the year ahead. Mike Henry
of BHP. Mike, thank you, sir. Appreciate
it. Coming up next we'll catch up with
the GE Vernova CEO Scott Strazic as
President Trump sticks with Big Tech and
the AI energy bill. That's coming up
next.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Yeah, but about 2 hours away. Check out
the price action after yesterday's
sell-off. No positive follow-through, no
bounce whatsoever. In the last 30
minutes or so, we rolled over on the S&P
500, down almost across the board. The
Russell showing a little bit of life. In
the bond market, a sell-off yesterday,
worldwide. We talked a lot about what
developed in Japan. Big sell-off at the
long end of the curve. Yields up by more
than 20 basis points on 30s, on 40s.
>> [music]
>> A marginal sell-off in the Treasury
market, but it spooked investors because
of what was also happening in the FX
market, which was a weaker dollar
against everything in G10. And that's
why you get the headlines they wake up
to this morning about the sell America
trade and a multi-year diversification
away from America.
>> Yeah, the price action matches a
narrative that a lot of people want to
put out there. So, a lot of people are
building momentum behind that. That
said, there are signs that there is a
different flavor right now, something
more akin to what we saw in April with
liberation day, with people not flocking
to Treasuries the same way. The idea
that we're seeing now, 30-year yields
actually higher on the day in the United
States, even as we see a rebound in
Japanese markets.
>> Just a judgment on the last 24 hours cuz
I've got no idea what happens in the
next several weeks, next several months,
no clue. But if we're going to make
comparisons to April, you're going to
need much bigger moves than the ones
we've seen so far to get the president
to rewrite that speech later this
afternoon.
>> We should note though that Treasury
Secretary did come out pretty swiftly.
[music] And we do know that the
president has said in the past, he likes
to disrupt the markets and he sends
Scott Bessent out there or soothe the
markets. Scott Bessent came out to try
to calm people and say take a deep
breath. There could be a solution. And
don't you get the sense talking here in
the conversations we're ha- having,
especially the Finnish president saying
by the end of the week he thinks we're
going to solve Greenland.
>> Will we get a Fed chair by the end of
the week? Apparently not. This is from
Eubank's official just moments ago. The
president won't announce a Fed chair
pick while he's in Davos. So, that's the
latest headline on that front.
>> who it's going to be.
>> Yeah, I don't think anyone knows who
it's going to be.
>> They got to know.
>> name keeps changing. As we count you
down to the cash open, let's get you
some single names and morning movers.
Let's cross over to Danny Berger for
more. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John, we've got some earnings to
work through this morning. Johnson &
Johnson started with a rally
>> [music]
>> and now that has changed. In the
pre-market it is down 1% despite the
fact it did beat specifically on its
cancer cell cancer drugs. The issue with
J&J that at first folks saw as a good
thing is the fact that it's been had to
discount some of its drugs because of a
deal reached with the White House and it
was able to beat even despite that.
Maybe that still is a big weight on the
share price it does see sales coming in
between 100 billion and 101 billion for
2026. [music]
We've also got Halliburton earnings.
This is the fracking company. Those were
a beat across the board. Shares rise
2.4% with all the oil services company.
We're going to be listening out on the
investor on the analyst phone call to
see if they say anything about
Venezuela. They did call out
specifically North America as a strong
spot for them. So, we'll see if anything
is mentioned about other regions in the
Americas. Finally, Netflix. Those shares
falling 7.2% [music]
in the pre-market. Sure, it was a beat
on a lot of their metrics. The issue is
the spend. They say they're going to be
spending 10% more in 2026 than they did
in 2025, which is 18 billion dollars for
those
>> [music]
>> keeping track. And then you add on top
of that of their planned acquisition
from Warner Brothers Discovery. So, that
bit of the cautious outlook is what
sending shares lower this morning, John.
>> Danny, thank you. We'll see more from
Danny a little bit later this morning
right here on Bloomberg TV. Let's get
back to it. The president pushing tech
companies to pay for new plans to power
AI data centers. Joining us now is Scott
Strazic, the CEO of GE Vernova, an
energy technology company. Scott, it's
good to see you, sir.
>> Thanks for having me. I appreciate it.
>> you're sold out through '28.
>> We're pretty full for the next few
years, but we're ready to meet this
moment. We're continuing to invest in
more manufacturing capability in all of
our factories in the US, and as there's
more plants ready with pedestals that
need the gas turbines, we'll deliver
them.
>> Okay, put some oxygen into that story.
Let's talk about this. How quickly has
demand just absolutely exploded? Over
the last few years.
>> Yeah, on gas, when you think about
coming into 2025, we had 46 gigawatts on
contract of future deliveries. We're
ending the year with about 80 gigawatts.
So, we almost doubled our backlog over
the course of 12 months. We expect that
to grow substantially in the next 12
months. So, this is a time when the
world is very clearly seeing that gas is
really a force multiplier that's going
to enable a lot of economic growth, but
also a lot of other power generation
sources that'll be built above and
beyond gas power.
>> It seems like all energy sources are not
equal in this current environment, at
least not politically. On one hand, gas,
yes, maybe even nuclear. We are seeing
some more enthusiasm around that. Wind,
no way. There seems to be a real sense
that offshore wind turbines are personas
non grata right now. Is that your sense
as well? Is that kind of how you're
arranging your uh your portfolio?
>> Well, there's no question that our order
book for wind is much softer than
everything else in the portfolio, and
it's a complicated policy environment.
At the end of the day, we talk about
applying the right technologies where
the right resources exist. Where there's
good wind and a lot of land, we should
build wind farms in smart ways that can
make economic sense, but that is the
softest business that we have right now.
To your point, nuclear is gaining a lot
of momentum. We're having more
excitement and commercial discussions on
our 300 megawatt small modular reactor
than ever in the past, including in
Europe. They're seeing the build that's
starting to happen in North America, and
I would expect for that to follow here.
So,
probably in no administration is all
technology sources treated equally. I
wouldn't say that all technologies were
treated equally during the Biden
administration either. So, you have to
kind of take that step back and then
just with every administration
serve them, and that's what we're doing.
>> How has your client mix changed? Because
it traditionally has been utilities more
than anything.
And increasingly as John was mentioning
in the intro, it really is directly the
AI companies and the hyperscalers
themselves. How much has that changed
the composition of your clients in the
business?
>> Drastically. In 2024 our order book had
very little negligible hyperscaler
orders. In 2025 was about 10% of our
order book. In 2026 it very well may be
25% of our order book. So, the growth is
real. The reality is these are good
companies take what puts their business
model at risk and gains control over
that. The reality is these companies
need the electrons along with the data
and the chip, and they're securing a lot
of the long lead equipment they need to
ensure that the electrons will be there
when they need them.
>> Scott, I'm glad you mentioned the Biden
administration because they did choose
winners and losers in the energy space
as well. We saw subsidies for EVs that
we don't have anymore. And this
administration squarely focused on oil.
The president wants $50 a barrel. How do
you plan for the long term if we have
elections and we have another one in
2028?
>> news is that the world is going to need
a lot more electrons for a really long
time. And in the end over the long term
they're going to need a diverse set of
technologies. So, we continue to invest
in all these technologies.
>> Nuclear though, what's so interesting is
that I have heard optimism Democrats and
Republicans about nuclear. But they
really haven't been able to sell it yet
to the public.
How is that going?
>> Well, I think we're on the mantle of
kind of making progress there. I think
that will we'll make progress in 2026. I
think as people start to see it shift
from talking about it to building it, I
think sentiment's going to shift in a
very material way.
>> Can that happen before say a midterm
election?
>> Well, I don't know if I'm if that's not
my role to figure out, you know, what
really moves the needle with elections.
I'm just building power plants and
serving the world with incremental
electrons right now, but that we can do.
And we're going to get a lot more stuff
in construction quickly that I think is
motivating for everybody involved.
>> That's the right answer and I'm sure
PR's happy with that. I just want to cut
in because we're getting an update about
the president's schedule and a bit of a
sneak peek about what we might hear from
the president in his address later on
this afternoon. So, according to a
administration official, the president's
speech later could touch on Venezuela
and Greenland. Also, the president has
about five bilaterals with European
leaders in Davos, Switzerland at the
World Economic Forum over the next few
days or so. So, that's a pretty packed
schedule for the president.
>> Pretty packed schedule. I'm really not
surprised he's going to talk about
Greenland because that has been the
topic du jour here at Davos and
Venezuela. Can you imagine? It was just
two and a half weeks ago that United
States went into Caracas and captured
Nicholas Maduro. Who are those five
bilateral
meetings with though? That is going to
be key because for the Europeans, what
is going on with Greenland and this
potential tariff threat on top of it has
been existential for them and they can't
see through doing anything else in terms
of deals with the United States because
of it. Mark Carney yesterday, you
brought him up.
>> Oh.
>> He said middle countries, if you're not
at the table, prepare to be eaten.
You're on the menu.
>> I Scott, I'm not going to ask you about
what's on the menu or Greenland, but I
will ask you this. The world feels like,
particularly sitting here, like it's
becoming more polarized. For companies
that have international ambitions, does
that get a little bit more complex, a
little bit more difficult?
>> Well, I think we need to build a more
resilient business model and to build a
more resilient business model, you need
to invest in local supply chains to
serve local markets and we're definitely
having to do that. But at the end of the
day, the demand is very healthy and our
relationships are very strong and we're
very confident investing into these
markets. But we do have to assume a more
polarized world and because of that,
more local manufacturing capability to
serve local markets.
>> And it becomes more competitive,
especially with other countries also
trying to build out their power grids.
And I just wonder how you toggle between
the expense of the inputs that's going
up, the incredible demand by
hyperscalers that have endless cash, and
the average consumer that funds the
utilities that doesn't. How do you face
that off and limit costs in a in an in a
conscious way?
>> I would actually say for the medium to
long term, the fact that those
complexities exist with all of that
growth, this is our moment to ultimately
create more cost-competitive products
because we have more volume. We can
invest in our business and our factories
in different ways to automate that in
the end will bring cost down. So, in the
early stages of a growth cycle, we're
having to make investments in our
factories. Medium term, we're going to
we're going to win this battle including
the affordability challenge.
>> There's a question and just to build on
the idea that John was raising about how
the world's becoming more complicated.
Yeah.
Does it raise an issue for you as a
US-based company that people maybe are a
little more skeptical of buying from you
if they're from another country? And
there are these tit-for-tats going on
between the leaders. Is that something
that comes up?
>> We're a very proud US company that's
committed to serving our international
customers, and I think they understand
that and they see that in our actions
every day and the investments that we
make every day. And today, no, we have
not experienced that in the end markets.
It doesn't mean that every day we don't
wake up and know we need to earn it. We
need to earn every day in the US, too,
right? And that's exactly what we intend
to do.
>> Hi, Scott. It's good to see you.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> Hey, thank you very much. That was Scott
Strazic, the the GE Vernova CEO. Just to
update you on some of the headlines we
got just moments ago for the president
and his address a little bit later on
this afternoon at the World Economic
Forum. He may touch on Venezuela and
Greenland. I think the bilaterals are
going to be absolutely crucial. Is there
an off-ramp? Can we resolve the tension
between the European leaders and the
president of the United States? There
will be five, according to a senior
administration official, five bilateral
meetings with European leaders taking
place over the next day or so.
>> So, this is going to be really critical
when it comes to at least Greenland, as
you say, Jonathan. Can there be an
off-ramp when it comes to Alexander
Stubb, when the Finnish president, he
sat here with us and said, "I think by
the end of the week, this will be
resolved." There's been so many phone
calls and text messages that the
president has actually
leaked and we've been privy to because
of that, revolving around Greenland.
But, at the end of the day, you heard
from the NATO Secretary General Mark
Rutte today saying, "Without Donald
Trump, Europe wouldn't be here in terms
of defense spending." So, potentially,
this is part of what the Trump
administration would call the art of the
deal.
>> I'm certainly not sitting here endorsing
any policy decisions coming from either
side, but I'm endorsing the radical
transparency. Isn't it refreshing just
to see and find out what everyone really
thinks
>> As a journalist, getting an eye on Yeah,
I'm getting an eye on text message chats
with world leaders is a dream that I
didn't know would come true. And the
president just, you know, he leaks it.
So, I sometimes actually it's hard to
cover the Trump administration. You're
on the edge of a scoop, and then Trump
just blurts it out.
>> That's it. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning. With
your Bloomberg brief, it's Vanya Quinn.
Hey, Vanya.
>> Hey, Jonathan. Thank you. [music]
President Trump says ICE agents
sometimes make mistakes as he broadly
defended the migrant crackdown in
Minnesota that's led to nationwide
protests.
>> [music]
>> Bloomberg News has learned the Justice
Department has issued subpoenas to
Minnesota Governor Tim Walz and
Minneapolis Mayor Jacob Frey who are
accused of conspiring [music]
to impede the federal crackdown.
The European Union is ready to strike
back against President Trump's Greenland
tariffs. EU President Ursula von der
Leyen sharing the block will back
Greenland with a massive European
investment [music] surge and strengthen
its security arrangements. Von der Leyen
went out to warn [music] current
rhetoric is creating a quote dangerous
downward spiral between allies.
Vice President J.D. Vance and his wife
Usha are expecting their fourth child in
July. The Vances have been married since
2014 and already have three, two boys
and a girl. The couple announced on
Instagram they're expecting another
[music] son. The last vice president to
welcome a baby while in office was
Thomas Marshall, that was 1917 and that
is your Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Congratulations to the vice president
and his family. Voni, thank you. More
from Voni in the next hour. Up next on
the program, politicizing the Fed.
>> I am not sure why Chair Powell would go
and support Governor Cook. I think that
his sitting in the front row of the
Supreme Court [music]
is a political statement. He is
politicizing the Fed.
>> [music]
>> Live from Davos, Switzerland this
morning. Good morning to you all,
counting down to the main event later
on. It's about 45 minutes away. The
president's slightly delayed, arriving
into Zurich before traveling across to
Davos. Ultimately, we're told by the
World Economic Forum this should still
be on schedule. 45 minutes away, the
president addressing and not just this
convention, but also the world. And
there's going to be a lot for domestic
consumption as well. There's plenty of
different audiences for this one, isn't
there?
>> Absolutely. He's going to have to
address though the domestic audience,
especially when it comes to this idea of
affordability. [music] They've been
teasing out what they're going to talk
about when it comes to housing, when it
comes to credit card interest rates
caps, which Jamie Dimon has some
interesting choice sharp words to the
administration on that this morning. And
then it's going to really be about
foreign policy because the entire
conference has been taken up by an
island that's inhabited by about 50,000
people when it comes to Greenland. And
we have to understand from the White
House the president will address [music]
what's going on with Greenland and then
will be sitting down with five European
leaders.
>> Fed pick, at least not yet.
>> but you know what? To get to the Fed you
got to get to the also the Banking
Committee. And you know, there's a
senior member of the Banking Committee
that's been roaming around Davos as
well, Jonathan.
>> Let's get to that right now. Under
Savannah's this morning, politicizing
the Federal Reserve.
>> I am not sure why Chair Powell would go
and support Governor Cook when the Fed
has not undertaken an examination of
whether she did in fact commit mortgage
fraud. If she did, she is stealing from
the American people. I think that his
sitting in the front row of the Supreme
Court is a political statement and I
agree with him. The Fed should not be
politicized. He is politicizing the Fed.
>> Joining us now, the Republican Senator
Thom Tillis at the epicenter of some of
the conversations down in Washington,
D.C. regarding the Federal Reserve.
Senator, good to see you.
>> Great to see you.
>> So, you're like the human roadblock now
to getting anyone confirmed. So, let's
get into that. Is it about the
individual or the process?
>> No, it's about the process. Look, I I
made the statement that I did when the
the news broke about the investigation
on Chair Powell because I felt like uh
leading up to the markets, that was on a
Sunday night, that uh wanted to send a
signal to the markets that the Fed is
independent and will be independent and
this legal process needs to play itself
out.
>> Your signal to the market is actually
potentially why we saw the market shrug
off that subpoena.
>> Well, and yeah, and I think also you you
have to look at uh people like Chair uh
French Hill and others who weighed in. I
think that it it it uh made uh a simple
fact obvious. The Senate does have
control over who gets on the board.
>> The Trump administration definitely
doesn't like slow processes. So, how
long do you think this is actually going
to take?
>> Well, it's up to the Department of
Justice at this point. I didn't get us
here, they got us here. So, they need to
go through this process, either permit
the facts fully adjudicated or determine
what to do with uh with the
investigation.
>> So, in other words, until this is
dismissed, there's no new there's no new
Fed chair.
>> Uh well, until it's dismissed, there's
347 days. That's the expiration of my
term.
>> Okay. Right now, [laughter] uh we're
here where you are diverging quite a bit
from some of the members of your own
party including President Trump. You've
gone back and forth. You're not running
for re-election. What do you tell people
who try to get a sense of what the
American people are going to do or what
Congress is going to do? What do you
tell them when they approach you here at
Davos looking for direction?
>> Well, I remind them that, you know, the
United States 250 years old now this
year, happy birthday, but we're a very
complex democracy. It's very difficult
to understand. It's It's difficult to
understand the institution of the Senate
and why one Senate member
in this particular Congress
can't control processes on committees.
You know, we're the deciding we're the
cloture maker we're the deciding vote.
So, I think it's an opportunity for us
to demonstrate democracy at its best in
the United States. I support the vast
majority of the president's policies. A
lot of the what's but some of the house
to me make no sense to me. Greenland,
the what makes a lot of sense to me
project power in Greenland. Why would
any fiscal conservative want to spend
billions of dollars to buy something
that we already have access to?
Greenland has offered us a base for a
dollar folks. We could get 17 bases if
you extend that for $17 versus $57
billion or whatever it would cost not to
mention that the Danes pay about a half
a billion dollars a year to just keep
the infrastructure running for this the
some 5700 and and a 57,000 indigenous
people on the island. Why do we want to
take on that overhead? Is it really
about projecting power in the Arctic or
something else? If it's something else
maybe I'll look at the business case.
But ostensibly it's about projecting
power in the Arctic and the best way to
project power in the Arctic is through a
Nate the NATO forces using their Arctic
skills, their ice breaking skills, the
projection of power that we come
together this the synergy of the NATO
alliance is far greater than anything
the United States could do on its own.
>> Do you know any fiscal conservatives in
Washington?
>> Well, starting with one. No, there are
there are several. I I think there are
several. Look, we
we've got start thinking about these
other structural decisions that we make
that run up the debt already to
unacceptable highs.
With the fraud that we're seeing here,
with the uncertainty, with the
increasing debt,
I worry about the you know, almost a
level of irrational exuberance. We've
somehow been able to withstand some of
the uncertainty, but there's a there's a
proverbial straw out there, and these
sorts of decisions could get us closer
to breaking the camel's back.
>> corrective action actually look like?
>> Corrective action.
>> What's doable in Washington at the
moment?
>> Well, you know, presumably, even if we
were to move forward and there was some
deal offered to Greenland and and to
and to Denmark, that would require
congressional approval. The president
doesn't have a a blank check that he can
continue to run up debt. That would
require a process and razor-thin
margins. And if it's a process that
doesn't play out until next year, it's
post-election. We've got to know what
Congress looks like next year. Or
they've got to know what Congress looks
like next year.
>> The president's squarely focused on
November 3rd in this affordability push.
Do you expect him to make more phone
calls to Senator Elizabeth Warren,
another senior member on the Banking
Committee, than to you?
>> I actually
Elizabeth Warren and I are friends.
We're not political friends, personal
[laughter] friends. I got on the floor
No, well of the house, I said,
"Elizabeth, remarkable. You've sold the
president on your on your arbitrary caps
on credit. We're no longer going to rate
for risk. We're just going to be rating
Basically, what's going to happen, we're
going to underbank or unbank a lot of
people, and we're going to destabilize
the the asset-backed secure asset-backed
securities market along the way." I
said, "Don't get me wrong. It's
extraordinary that you've sold the
president on this idea, but you know I'm
going to do everything I can to kill
it."
>> But do you think something will be done
when it comes to credit cards? Maybe
it's the other bill that's being floated
that's slightly different.
>> you know, why would we want to repeat a
bad idea? If you're taking a look at
MasterCard and Visa, they're working
with the small retailer. The retailers
have a legitimate concern. Um and and
and the credit card companies are
working that out. We don't need a big
government arbitrary solution. We've
seen credit card competition acts in
Europe, and they've been abject
failures. 15 to 70% of all of the travel
to Alaska, for example, are through
rewards. Do you the money's got to come
from somewhere? Do you think that that
travel's going to be funded in the
future? Are that those sorts of rewards
and and programs going to be cut? It
makes no sense. It's not sustainable.
And I think that we have the the votes
in the Congress to uh hold it off this
Congress.
>> The United States has been known for
process. That's one reason why a lot of
businesses have invested in the United
States and the capital markets that
we've created. And I just wonder, as you
are here with global business leaders,
does it worry you that you hear more
investors, more businesses looking to
diversify away from the United States
because of a lack of predictability of
process, of policy?
>> to do that. I I I spent uh nearly 20
years at PricewaterhouseCoopers and IBM
Global Business Services. I would have
to I would have to tell every client I
advised at that time, "This is a risk.
You've got to reduce your buy box for
for any sorts of uh high-risk ventures."
And that that freezes capital. That uh
that tampers growth. That's the last
thing we need right now.
>> Are you going to be in the room in 36
minutes' time?
>> 100%.
>> What are you expecting to hear?
>> I um
I'm expecting to hear President Trump
give a speech.
>> [laughter]
>> That won't happen. And the content of
said speech?
>> One thing I'm certain of.
>> Have you got a read
on the content of said speech?
>> Uh no, no. I'll hear it when everybody
else hears it. Um but, you know, I will
tell you the reason everybody's probably
wondering what Steel has got the bling
on for. Uh [laughter] this is from uh we
had a new tribe. The largest tribe east
of the Mississippi is the Lumbee
Indians. They got recognized after 137
years of abuse and neglect.
Interestingly enough, they're about the
same size tribe, 55,000,
of the indigenous people in Greenland. I
heard a very important comment when I
was in Denmark. They say, "People can
trade, but you can't trade people." We
need to make everyone understand that
those people on the ground have been
there for 4,500 years. They want us
there, but they want us there in their
territory, not American territory. And
it can be accomplished much more
conservatively, much more sustainably by
cooperation.
>> Senator, you remain a principal, a
classic guy. It's good to see you.
Thanks for being here.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you very much. Senator Tom Tillis
there, 40 so minutes away, let's call it
35 now, away from the main event here in
Davos, Switzerland at the World Economic
Forum. The President of the United
States addressing this forum, this
continent, and I would say the whole
world right now on edge.
>> Yep, he had a whole massive disruptor
vibe coming into this Davos. He will be
on time, we're told, even though there
was a little bit of an issue taking off,
but it's going to go about foreign
policy, green-lit of course what Senator
Tillis was talking about, but also the
domestic issues at home, affordability,
cuz you look at the polling and people
are still saying prices are too high.
>> Just compare the drama from all the
Europeans [music] and everything that's
going to take place to the optimism you
might hear in the next hour from the
Morgan Stanley Chairman and CEO Ted
Pick, BNY CEO Robin Vince, and NYSE
President Lynn Martin. All of that still
to come.
>> [music]
[music]
>> All roads continue to lead to America.
The only wild card is macro geopolitics.
>> There is some sell America going on.
>> The world has never been this
unpredictable from a policy perspective.
>> Everything has changed for the global
economy.
>> There's a lot of uncertainties. If the
uncertainty tamps down, then I think
we'll be back in business.
>> Bloomberg Surveillance, live from Davos
with Jonathan [music] Ferro, Lisa
Abramowicz, and Anne Marie Hordern.
>> And is Davos disrupted big time. Live
from Davos, Switzerland this morning.
Good morning, good morning for our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now.
The main event
>> [music]
>> is 30 minutes away. The President of the
United States addressing this
convention, addressing the world. Only
so many times in our careers can we sit
here and say, "You know what? I don't
think I've seen a speech this highly
anticipated for a long, [music] long
time." And this one is right up there.
>> And part of the reason why is because
never before has one person dominated a
conversation to such a degree. I mean,
honestly, it wasn't just this Davos, but
last Davos as well. The Davos man was
President Donald Trump and what that
could mean for
and it wasn't even here. He gave a
speech. Remember that speech he gave
that was beamed in? Scotty beamed in?
And there was a huge crowd of people
just waiting to get in for the remote
screening. So, this time is even more
amped up and it seems like everyone is
just waiting here with that.
>> There's going to be something for
everyone a little bit later on this
morning. It is going to be about, of
course, foreign policy, Venezuela maybe,
Greenland. The Europeans are on edge
about that issue, obviously. But there's
plenty for domestic consumption as well.
Affordability was the big push coming
into this week from the President of the
United States going into the midterms
later this year. That's going to be a
big feature of this address.
>> Absolutely. And what does it mean if you
are in [music] the C-suite of an
American business when the President of
the United States is saying, "I want you
to cap credit card interest rates at
10%. I don't want you to have any more
buybacks or dividends because you're
privy to American tax dollars when it
comes to say the defense sector." Or we
heard from Kevin Hassett going into
this, "Maybe Americans can start in
earnest really tapping their 401K to get
on the housing ladder." He has the
American public's attention at this
moment in Davos. And you know what? He's
always thought this was a little bit of
a cabal of the global elite and he's
going to lean into that and why these
individuals here have really failed the
everyday man. That is going to be, I
think, the administration spin on Davos.
>> Do you think it's fair to say if you're
a banker right now and you don't have a
credit card business, you're probably
quite happy?
>> Oh, yeah. You're breathing a sigh of
relief.
>> guy just across from us that's feeling
pretty good about that. Coming up on the
program, we'll catch up with Morgan
Stanley Chairman and CEO Ted Pick, the
BNY CEO Robin Vince, the NYSE President
Lynn Martin joining us a little bit
later this hour as well. At 8:30 Eastern
Time, we'll have full coverage for you
of President Donald Trump's special
address right here in Davos,
Switzerland. We begin this hour with
stocks slightly lower following the
biggest slide in 3 months as investors
search for direction. The Morgan Stanley
chairman and CEO, Ted Pick, has seen it
all and he joins us now for more. Ted,
good to see you.
>> Guys, thanks for having me. Electric
electric moment.
>> I'm feeling pretty good.
>> You're not going to be in the speech in
about 28 minutes time. Going to avoid
that?
>> Uh yeah, I'll be with you guys.
>> [laughter]
>> Let's talk about how things are set up
for 26. We've drawn a big distinction
between the energy that's coming from
European officials and the emotion they
have about a place like Greenland and
the optimism that people have for the
broader US economy, particularly from
bankers regarding the pipeline and the
amount of debt issuance we've seen over
the past few months. The debt
underwriting that you've really
benefited from that's going to fund a
lot of the transition. How amped up are
you about the year ahead?
>> Well, thanks for having me, guys. Great
to see you. Uh I'm pretty amped up. You
know, we had we had several years where
the M&A activity was going to get going
and then COVID happened and then rates
roofed and it's taken a while for it to
unglue, but this kind of in this case
literal noise speaks to our C-suite need
to act, whether it's to re-globalize or
reorient where your operations are, who
you want to do business with and as long
as there's activity we're busy. So,
cross-border M&A, large-cap M&A
going to be important. Uh AI acts as an
accelerant to that too. If you want to
actually get after the productivity
gains and embed in AI, you have to have
the wherewithal to do it. And your
market cap is 30 or 40 billion, that's
tough. You know, how do you take a
couple points off your income statement
to do that year after year? But if
you're 2-300 billion, maybe you got a
shot. So, people are thinking bigger and
then the sponsors, as you know, couple
thousand companies that have been
sitting there that have billion-dollar
market caps implied, they need to come.
And then very importantly, you have
these great companies that have been
private and over the last 15 years we've
seen companies go public to defease
options or effectively would
secondaries. You may actually see great
companies that are growth companies,
some of them in the AI ecosystem that
want to go tap capital. So, for the
investment bank, a great period. And
then, for a wealth manager, leading
wealth manager in the US and the world,
you want to allocate your capital
efficiently. So, very exciting. Very
exciting.
>> Let's unpack some of those business
lines. So, let's just pick up on the IPO
pipeline, the activity we could see
later this year. SpaceX, OpenAI, we're
talking about some absolute monsters.
You and the team have been historically
quite dominant in the tech sector. What
are you doing right now to prepare for
that moment in the future?
>> Well, uh these these companies, you
know, you bank them for a whole bunch of
years
and you get to know them.
So, there's a process, obviously, the
formal bake-off process, and then the go
or no-go decision. But, typically, the
company has a pretty good idea of what
it wants to do ahead of time because
it's selected its group, and the stakes
are really high this this round because,
as you say, these the implied market
caps these companies are enormous, but
also they are uh paradoxically, they're
very large, but also mega growers. They
have, you know, some of them have a
little bit of a change-the-world feel to
them. So, they could become must-own. I
mean, one of the things that [music] you
guys have talked a lot about is so much
of the equity base has become either
beta or it's become kind of the seven or
eight names. Well, what if there are
some additional companies that three,
four, five hundred billion-dollar market
caps, trillion,
trillion-and-a-half-dollar market cap?
The active management community says, "I
want to own that. I want to own that
from the time of the IPO." So, I think
it's not just Wall Street getting to
know these companies, it's a whole bunch
of investors who have either backed into
early rounds or want to be there when
the IPO comes.
>> When we were speaking with you a year
ago in these uh seats, you were talking
about how it's going to be a great year
for IPOs and M&A. And it was for your
for your bottom line. You had an
incredible year.
There was, though, a lot of IPOs and a
lot of deals that got stymied by
Liberation Day and policy uncertainty.
What has to go right for some of these
deals to come to fruition? OpenAI,
Anthropic, SpaceX.
>> Well, I think part of the reason these
companies are so interesting uh to
investors is they are not rushed
to go public. So there has to be an
element of being patient if you're in
and around the ecosystem. They don't
have to come in the first half of 2016,
come in the second half of 2016, they
could even come in 2027, but they are
drawing a whole bunch of interest to
names like them, derivative plays in the
ecosystem as you sort of disaggregate
the entire AI daisy chain, where do you
want to play? So the anticipation of the
company going public almost is is as
important as the company itself coming,
but whether they come Lisa in '26 or
'27, they're going to come. They're
going to come.
>> It's sort of a a dissonance right now
when you talk to business leaders about
how much enthusiasm there is for deals
and for energy in the US economy. And
then when you hear the policy makers,
you hear uncertainty and you hear sell
America. How do you square those two
narratives at a time where you do hear a
growing number of investors say they are
diversifying away from US assets?
>> I I I I hear you guys talking about this
a lot. Um, I think there are two
separate phenomena, but they're not
exclusive. Uh, one is we got the arc of
history, you know, I've gone on about
the end of the end of history and that
things would get going again and the
nation states would be battling for
hegemony and kind of trying to, you
know, win out on the rise and fall of
nations. That's just a historical fact
that kind of got uh, there was an
interregnum between Berlin Wall and
COVID. We're actually back to the
balance of human history as we've all
studied and uh, that means there's going
to be
the kind of stuff that we are living
through right now. It's just been a
while. And I and I don't know
necessarily that that is
uh, something we should expect to go
away anytime soon. There's going to be
renationalizing, nationalizing, and that
means in some cases there'll be higher
country risk, there'll be maybe uh,
pockets of illiquidity, there may be
opportunistic uh, transactions or
allocations that that happen, but after
20 years of financial repression, we're
back to live markets and live nation
states. That's here. But at the same
time, you have US capital markets which
are more than half the capital stock.
And the reality is very basically as we
know corporate health is excellent.
Consumer health at the top end is
excellent. And obviously the the
administration is getting after housing
for the for the bottom half of the cake.
Earnings as you know uh grew 8% this
year. They could grow in the mid-teens
next next year. That's double the
long-term average. That's pretty good.
So good corporate uh good consumer
excellent capital markets and easier Fed
to lower by 75. Maybe there's more to
go. Maybe it's a demand driven 2026 in
which case the Fed doesn't have to move.
We have good inflation. We keep on
powering forward growth. Or maybe it's
supply side where uh there's spending
but there isn't the same kind of uh got
job creation then the Fed will help out.
So they're downside cases but just in
the main oh and the tailwinds of
deregulation and the bill are kicking
in. It kind of is hard to argue against
the 26 US led growth case. Now we could
get in a debate about where asset prices
should be but in terms of just 2 years
ago we talked about recession. Last year
we weren't sure because the
administration's coming. We're not
talking about that today. So for our
business very simply we write tickets to
kind of two times GDP nominal. And so if
you think about our wealth and
investment bank if we're going to grow
you know 5 10% on a two times basis
nominally that should be pretty good for
our business if we're doing our job.
>> Corporate health
is very good. It's excellent. Sovereign
health is questionable.
>> Right.
>> talk about that?
>> in the last 24 hours the live market
stuff. Let's get into that. The move in
Japan at the long end of the curve. Is
that a warning shot? Is that the start
of something bigger?
>> Well I mean this Japan trade has been
talked about forever.
Um and
uh
and I would expect then in a lot of you
know highly indebted
uh countries you know off the Liz Truss
moment where the demographics are poor
and you don't have the wherewithal or
fiat to kind of work your way through
that, there could be some vulnerability.
So, what does that mean? That means if
we sort of do our economics meets
you know, policy thing, I think that
means you want to get closer to places
where you can act in your joint economic
interest, and I think the Japanese
example's one that we should continue to
pay attention to. I wouldn't be
surprised if we see pockets of that now
and then when you know, there's a little
talk of the bounty looks lousy, but
we're going to inject a little stimulus,
and let's see if anyone notices. Yeah,
they noticed. So, you know, you sort of
have to you know, then then you adjust.
It's you know, it's a trial balloon. It
gets pulled back, and that's probably
healthy for markets. You know, you see a
lot of that's been bought back today,
but that's different than the US
Treasury phenomenon. You know, that that
that that's been that's been hugely
overblown. The reality is that when we
did this a year ago, the Treasury
Secretary, as you know better than
anyone, was talking about the 10-year
being so important to keep an eye on. I
think the 10-year is around 457, 455,
460. Now it's at 425, 430. So, the
10-year is doing its job. There's some
steepening. Yes, it's probably healthy.
So, I I do think there's a conflation
between kind of US Treasury phenomenon
and the world, and I think there's a
difference, and you know, we just have
to continue to highlight the difference.
>> Very quickly, Ted. Before you spend
time, you grew up in Venezuela. New
world now. You planning to maybe help
facilitate companies go back in?
>> Uh I'm not prepped for that question.
>> [laughter]
>> But you lived there. That's why
>> I'm interested, cuz you have a different
take probably than every other CEO
walking around this forum.
>> Well, Venezuela's an extraordinary
place,
has a a proud but now in recent decades
very troubled history,
but is you know,
if you know your Monroe Doctrine,
critical, and has
albeit, as you've talked about at
length,
it's it's it's more sulfuric, but very
high uh,
uh,
quantities of, uh, of oil beneath the
ground. So, uh, do I think Venezuela is
going to be relevant? I think Latin
America is going to be relevant. I think
the hemisphere is going to be relevant
in its, uh, sort of thinking around how
wants to get closer, uh, while
maintaining its own, uh, you know, uh,
political and social independence from
the US, but I think a coming together of
some places, uh, may make some sense and
maybe in the broader economic interest
back to the previous question.
>> a fantastic answer.
>> Thank you so much.
>> I've got one more. I hope this is not a
landmine. There was some news earlier
about Deutsche Bank. And I just want to
breathe some life into that story. And
essentially the Treasury Secretary came
out. There was some research that he
didn't like. And according to him, the
Deutsche Bank CEO has turned around and
said, "I don't stand by that research."
That's basically the point. Is it
difficult for the research department at
Morgan Stanley to say what they think in
an environment like this one? And I ask
this question because I know some
tremendous individuals at Morgan Stanley
in research. And they are all highly
intelligent, capable, and have their own
thoughts about where they think we are
in this moment right now. But is it
difficult in the C-suite to allow them
just to go out there full throat, full
throttle, full full blooded, and just
say what they really think about this
moment?
>> Absolutely not.
I'm not out of piece research at my desk
for a, uh, for a yellow light or a no
go. I think what gets a little tricky is
these institutions also have desk
analysts. So, I don't know if this one
came out of the research department or
maybe a desk analyst sitting in one of
the, uh, divisions. But to answer your
question directly, uh, we want we
celebrate broad opinion. I do think, uh,
but but to give to give not, um, kind of
the, uh, the the standard answer, part
of the reason you like our research is
because it, um,
it's not just regurgitation. Cuz we all
have a Bloomberg terminal, okay? So, it
it has to have some kind of value add.
But it doesn't have to just be
provocation for its own sake. So, we
have industry leaders. We have sector
leaders. We have
Seth Carpenter who you pointed out. I
was watching you talk to him and I was
and that was quite a moment.
When I looked down at the bottom of the
camera you actually see that. Okay.
Starbucks all over my shoe.
So, thanks for that. That was excellent.
So, you had at least one viewer that day
and that was me. So,
and and Seth. But, uh
the answer is the independence of
research is is important. We've invested
in it for all these years. That having
been said, sort of writing research to
just sort of
provoke and kind of get your Warhol
moment, I mean, that is not really fair
to the institution either. And it puts
it puts the particular government or
whomever in an awkward spot because they
read the research. So, I think there's
got to be a balance between independent
integrity in what you're writing and
writing something that actually meant to
add value and bring intellectual capital
to the fore.
>> Some of the John Lennon bill. I saw that
out for you.
>> I didn't actually spit it up. I just
swallowed and smiled.
>> So, thank you, sir. Thank you very much.
Ted Pick there, the Morgan Stanley
chairman and CEO. Let's give an update
on stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Here's Roni Quinn. Hey, Roni.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. The Justice
Department sending grand jury subpoenas
to multiple Minnesota officials,
including Governor Tim Walz and
Minneapolis Mayor Jacob Frey. [music]
The subpoenas are part of an
investigation into whether they
conspired to impede federal immigration
enforcement activity. [music]
The move escalates a standoff over ICE
efforts to deport people who are
allegedly in the country illegally.
US Trade Representative Jameson Greer
says another round of trade talks
between the US and China is possible
ahead of President Donald Trump's
planned meeting with Xi Jinping in China
this April. Greer spoke after Treasury
Secretary Steven Mnuchin held an
informal meeting with the Chinese Vice
Premier on Monday.
Commuter rail service has been suspended
in Spain's Catalonia region after a
commuter train [music] crashed Tuesday
night. Spanish authorities said at least
one person died and 37 others were
injured in the crash. The news [music]
coming of course just days after Spain's
worst railway disaster since 2013. That
killed at [music] least 42 people and
injured dozens.
And that is your Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Thanks, Roni.
Roni, thank you. Appreciate it. Up next
on the program, BNY CEO Robin Vince,
plus the president set to address
[music] the World Economic Forum right
here in Davos, Switzerland.
>> [music]
>> Live from Davos, Switzerland about 15-20
minutes away from the main event, the
president of the United States
addressing not just this forum, but
addressing [music] the world a little
bit later on. We've been waiting for
this one over the last several weeks and
it's taken on even more importance
following the events of the last weekend
and the tension building between
European officials and the president of
the United States. Following that
address, full coverage right here on
Bloomberg Surveillance. We'll catch up
with the National Economic Council
director Kevin Hassett on the content on
that speech and a way forward.
>> So, Kevin Hassett has really been the
one going out and promoting, teasing out
what the president is going to discuss
here in Davos when it comes to the
housing market, when it comes to the
credit card interest rate caps. On top
of that, we do know that the president
is not going to make a decision when it
comes to the Fed chair race here in
Davos. But, that someone, Kevin Hassett,
is still in the running. So, potentially
maybe he can tell us what the
conversations have been like over the
past 24-48 hours.
>> Which Kevin's in front right now?
>> I don't know. It depends on the hair.
>> [laughter]
>> That's what I hear. That's not what it
depends on.
>> Well, there are a lot of things it
depends
>> Well, she's a little bit more slicked
back on the hair.
>> you know, the hair is a little bit more
uh puppy. Look, we have no idea and it's
not clear right now that the president
knows exactly who he's going to pick.
So, we're not going to hear it now, but
certainly he'll be asked certainly he'll
say I'll do whatever is in the pleasure.
>> He he might get some input this evening
when he sits around for business round
table. He's going to be meeting with
CEOs right here at the forum and he
might say, you know, "Charles Paul, what
do you guys think of Rick Reader? What
do you think of Kevin Hassett? What do
you think of this guy?"
>> Well, in Tokyo, remember he called out
Scott Bessent and said I want you to
take the job and Scott Bessent has no, I
like where I'm at Treasury. So, yeah,
that's how it is. Prepare for a lot of
weaving as he calls it.
>> That address is about 10 minutes away.
Look out for that. Let's talk about the
financial system and banking. I'm
pleased to say that joining us now is
Robin Vince, the CEO of
>> It's good to be with you all. Thank you
on such an interesting day.
>> You are across
20% of
investable assets. I mean, that's a lot
of things. What are you seeing right
now? Are you seeing those changes that
people are talking about that
diversification away from US assets? Do
you see that at all?
>> Now, we we we we really don't see that
in the data at this point. And remember
where we've come from, which is the US
has been really an incredibly strongly
performing market, strong economy.
People have been predicting the US to be
at some type of decline from an economic
point of view, recessions. We've talked
about that in the past two or three
years. None of that's actually happened.
And in fact, now I think you'll find and
you've heard this on your show, more
optimism associated with what the next
year holds from an economic point of
view. GDP pretty solid, looking to
potentially even expand in 2026. You've
got the stimulus checks coming. They the
way that they actually didn't adjust the
withholding in order to be able to
encourage those stimulus checks. That
all is a pretty good setup. Now, you've
got to be in the preparedness business.
We're all risk managers and at the end
of the day, you've got to be resilient
because things can go wrong, things can
happen. But I think that's the setup.
And and so, reallocating away from the
US in the face of that, probably not the
smartest choice to make, but you've got
to be diversified. So, you cannot have
the concentration. The US been pretty
concentrated bet over the past few
years.
>> Although, what's the consequence of
that? I mean, there's a difference
between reallocating away from and
diversifying. There is some knock-on
effect, which is maybe some people are
calling sell America. Other people are
just saying diversifying and hedging
your bets. I mean, how much will that
affect the funding conditions of the
United States?
>> Well, diversification makes sense. One
needs to have a balanced portfolio. It's
just good risk management. It's good
investment management to make sure that
you've got exposure to the various
different opportunities that are out
there. But we certainly have seen and
you know, look around. We're a global
firm. We provide platforms and serve
clients all across the world. But when
you look at the US and you just look at
the facts of the performance over the
course of the past decade, you look at
all the innovation that's been in the
US, all of the value that's created. AI
is one example, technology more
generally. It would have been a mistake
to not have participated in the US
market. So, a little bit of rebalancing,
a little bit of of sort of thinking
about how to make sure you've got the
right portfolio, whether it's equities,
fixed income. We talk about 60/40. Oh,
gosh, it was dead. Now it's back. Bonds.
Okay, where where do you want to be
exposed to in the bond market? You know,
the US bond market is still the most
liquid market in the world and it is
still the closest thing to a risk-free
asset that there actually is.
>> How important is it that Senator Tom
Tillis stays in Senate at least for the
next 364 days? Uh he was on uh just a
moment ago with us and he was talking
about how he's not going to hold
confirmation hearings until the DOJ
uh suit or inquiry into Fed Chair J.
Powell is lifted. I'm just wondering
from your perspective, how important
[clears throat] it is to see uh
that type of noise die down around the
Federal Reserve for you to feel
confident that this truly is going to
remain the status quo going forward.
>> Right. Well, the senator is a great
public servant and I appreciate all of
his time serving in the US Senate. But I
think you hit the key point, which is at
the end of the day it's not super
helpful for the long-term objectives of
the US, which are keep interest rates on
the low side to be able to make it
easier for people to be able to borrow,
to be able to buy a home, to be able to
fund a car payment, for companies to be
able to borrow in order to be able to
fund and invest their businesses. For
all of that, we want low rates. So,
creating and sort of shaking at the
foundation of the independence of
monetary policy, that's not really in
the interests of keeping long-term rates
low. So, I think it is helpful if that
dies down and we can get back to the
business of really seeing the economy
perform.
>> Counterproductive, which is the words
you used in the past when it comes to
it. Have you had any engagement with the
White House about this issue, given the
concerns?
>> You know, we're we're always talking to
the administration, making sure that
we're giving our point of view. And so,
that's of course, that's one of our jobs
and one of my jobs as a CEO is to be
talking all across the administration
and in Congress and giving them our
perspective. And I do think it is in the
interests and the administration's been
very clear. They would like to see long
term interest rates lower because it
benefits companies and individuals. And
so, if that's the objective, then making
sure that we're keeping the Federal
Reserve sort of bit out of the news and
not super controversial, I would
personally say would be would be would
be in furtherance of that objective.
>> It's certainly very much in the news at
the moment. Robin, can we talk about
your business? How is being a bank
changing? In what direction are you
leaning into?
>> Well, we've been reimagining the company
to be quite honest. You know, we've got
a fun history. We're 240 years old. We
were born right around the time of the
United States, 1784, oldest bank in the
nation, one of the oldest companies in
New York. It's such a fun history. Now,
we got to be old because we've been
innovating all along the way. We've
stayed very focused on customers and our
culture is important. That's how you get
to be a long-lived company. So, what
have we been doing? We've been taking
stock of what we've actually got, our
real assets, our great businesses, and
we've really been focused on delivering
them better for the client. We used to
be a bunch of pieces, kind of siloed,
fragmented. And so, we set out 3 years
ago to say, "We're just going to
reimagine the company and we're going to
pull ourselves together. We're going to
focus on our clients. We've got these
market-leading businesses. We're kind of
a financial services platforms company
these days, and we're going to rally
round as a team. Very important that
culture, team, to be able to deliver for
customers. And you can see the results.
So this was past quarter for us, which
comes to the the sort of the end of that
first 3-year chapter, was a it was a
quarter of records. It was actually a
year of records for us in 2025. Record
revenue, record pre-tax income, huge EPS
growth. And the markets rewarded us for
that, but what they're really looking
through and seeing is the fact that
we're delivering for our customers, and
that's what it's all about.
>> Are you going to make it to the speech
in about 5 minutes time?
>> uh like the rest of the world, as you
said earlier on, I'm looking forward to
watching and listening.
>> the room is pretty packed out right now.
>> It will be interesting.
>> Hey Robin, it's good to see you.
>> It's good to see you as well.
>> Thanks for your time. We appreciate it.
>> Thank you very much, sir.
>> Robin Vince there, the BNY CEO. A lot to
look forward to. So in about 4 or 5
minutes time, we're expecting to hear
from the President of the United States
addressing this conference. As we
anticipate that, let's just turn to the
markets. This is how things are set up
going into this main event a little bit
later this morning and into the opening
bell about an hour away. Equity futures
on the back foot turning lower in the
last few hours or so. Equity futures
down by a few tenths of 1% in the bond
market looking across twos, 10s, and
30s. Yields just a touch higher
yesterday. Yes, I know there was drama
in FX as well. The dollar was weaker,
yields were higher. They were much, much
higher. Over in Tokyo, Japan JGBs, the
sell-off yesterday, hey? 20 basis point
move at the long end of the curve. 20
basis points plus.
>> 38 basis points over two trading
sessions. And evidently, TCW is in there
buying and selling Treasuries to finance
some of those purchases. Real question
here about what willingness there it
will be from the authorities to come in
and to stave off some of that pain.
That's some of the price action for you.
Let's get you some single names, some
morning movers. Let's cross over to
Danny Burger for more. Hey Danny. Hey
John, you saw there the Nasdaq
underperforming. Here's the reason.
Netflix falling 7 and 1/2% in the
pre-market after earnings yesterday.
Sure, the metrics were fine. The issue
was their spend. [music] They're
spending 10% more on their titles in
2026 along with that Warner Brothers
Discovery acquisition. We also had some
earnings coming from the banks,
specifically the regional Citizens
Financials reporting and it is a beat
across all their metrics. Deposits grow
grew and the really strong [music] part
was fee and capital markets for the
mid-market deal action. It is alive and
well and benefiting the likes of
Citizens. Those shares up more than 1%.
Finally, wrapping things up with Schwab
also reporting earnings this morning.
For them, it's a miss, but it's off the
lows only down about 1%. It's back and
forth considering most of their metrics
beat, but revenue was weaker. [music] A
disappointment for a company that should
have capitalized off the market
volatility and specifically the equity
market volatility of 2026. So, John,
those shares down about 3/4 of 1% this
morning.
>> Danny Burke, Danny, thank you. More from
Danny in the next couple of hours on
Bloomberg TV. Allow me to set up the
next 60 minutes or so. So, at some point
on the schedule, the schedule indicates
that this is going to happen in the next
5 minutes or so, the president of the
United States will address the World
Economic Forum here in Davos,
Switzerland. After that's wrapped up,
commercial free throughout all of that,
we'll be catching up with a National
Economic Council Director, Kevin
Hassett. So, look out for all of that
still to come right here on Bloomberg
TV. In anticipation of this big event,
let's turn to one of Wall Street's
biggest names, the New York Stock
Exchange, building a venue for trading
tokenized stocks and ETFs around the
clock. The nice president, Lynn Martin,
joins us now for more. Lynn, good to see
you.
>> Good to see you, guys. It's much
must-see TV is what we're in the midst
of.
>> right. It's box office, Lynn. What are
you expecting to hear? What are you
expecting to hear from the president?
>> Don't know.
Um
think probably it will be a focus on
strength of the US economy. I'm sure
we'll be covered. Uh I'm sure the
achievements of the administration over
the last year will be covered. Other
than that, think it's a guessing game
for all of us, right?
>> What's your sense about the volatility
in some of the headlines around
geopolitics, around US policy, and
frankly, the incredible enthusiasm for
capital markets here, especially in the
United States with respect to deals and
IPOs, etc.
>> Yeah, absolutely. I mean, our markets
have done tremendously well. You look at
the growth of the major indices over the
last year, they've been resilient in
spite of the volatility. I think that
really speaks to the strength of the US
economy. And to your point, we continue
to attract companies from
not based in the US to the US markets.
If I think about AstraZeneca
and the moves that they made, they're
going to be debuting on us through
ordinary shares on February 2nd. Um,
they've seen 30% growth in their stock.
There's still a tremendous amount of
demand to tap the US capital markets
because of the unrivaled pool of
liquidity, unrivaled transparency, and
the amazing innovation that happens in
the US. All of which I expect he's going
to speak about.
>> Late last year, there was supposed to be
a huge boom in IPOs, and it was stymied
by the government shutdown. But, some of
those offices weren't open to actually
sign off on the deals. I'm just
wondering how much that slowed things
down in a way that still remains to be
seen whether it can all come back.
>> Yeah, it slowed it down operationally,
but it didn't slow it down from a coming
to market perspective. If I look at our
pipeline, we're expecting a tremendous
amount of activity in these next couple
of weeks, actually. We have a deal on
the road at the moment. We have another
deal going next week. Early February's
queuing up to be quite active, but we
really see it towards the back end of Q1
into Q2 with many deals targeting their
public market debuts then.
>> There was a pause around Liberation Day.
To Lisa's point, there was a pause
around the 43-day government shutdown.
Could we potentially see a Greenland
pause? We did see some pushback from
financial markets.
>> Um, I don't know.
Again, I think it's I think these
companies are looking to tap the
broadest investor pool possible and
diversify their investor base. And there
really isn't any substitute for that for
the medium to long-term. The private
markets have done a good job in
financing these companies and enabling
these companies to continue to build, to
innovate, to refine their strategy, but
there isn't a substitute for the public
markets for the long-term.
>> Are we about to make it easier to go
public?
>> I should hope so. Some of the recent
comments from the SEC, it seems like
you're aligned at the moment.
>> Yeah, we we've been working a lot with
Chairman Atkins and his team on paving a
way for companies to go public. Now,
that involves a variety of items. It's
not just about quarterly versus
semi-annual reporting. If you look at
some of the pro-business legislation
that a state like Texas has produced,
that's designed to take away that
uncertainty, that litigation risk,
lessen that likelihood. It's why you've
seen Texas become such a popular
location for companies to incorporate
in, and it's why we formed NYSE Texas
last year as the first Texas
incorporated exchange.
>> We could see some mega IPOs in the next
12 months. SpaceX.
>> Yep.
>> OpenAI.
>> Anthropic.
>> Yeah, the list goes on and on and on.
Lynn, can I get this question in? Am I
the only one not excited about 24/7
trading? 24/7 stuff. I mean, like,
[laughter]
this is exhausting. We're waiting for
the president about to enter the room
any moment and stand in front of that
podium and deliver a major speech. Yeah.
That's tiring enough. 24/7 trading, 7
days a week. What's going on?
>> Okay. Well, the traditional equity
markets are moving to 23 by 5 at some
point this year. If you recall, we had
filed for that regulation in October of
2024. The reason we did that though is
because the market is already trading
around the clock. And we believe it is
our responsibility
to bring the regulatory structure, the
certainty of trade execution to those
markets to enable the buyer to know that
they bought, the seller to know that
they sold, and for it to appear in their
accounts. That's what we're doing with
traditional equities, we paved the way
for that, and that's what we're doing
with tokenized equities, too. Bringing
the good hygiene, resiliency, the
stability, the reliability that only the
NYSE can bring to markets.
>> And it's good to see you. I know you're
excited about watching this as well. So,
I'll let you go. Thanks for dropping by.
Thank you so much.
>> Thank you.
>> That was Lynn Martin, the NYSE
president, weighing in on what's
happening with financial markets at the
moment in anticipation of a major event
taking place here at the World Economic
Forum, just moments away. Let's cross
over to Washington, D.C., and catch up
with Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall. Tyler,
highly anticipated on the ground, is
Washington on edge, as well?
>> Right, John. I would say Washington is,
considering that we heard from a senior
administration official earlier who
previewed that this is going to have an
America first feel, as expected. The
White House had already outlined that
this is going to have to do with
affordability, as we heard from the
president's chief of staff, Susie Wiles,
earlier this morning, who confirmed that
President Trump is set to travel to Iowa
on Tuesday, and then she says will make
weekly domestic visits from now until
November, and that is because Washington
is watching closely as all gears go full
steam ahead for Republicans and the
midterms as they try to maintain their
majorities in Congress. Just the quick
context here is that Democrats only have
to net three seats in net gain of three
seats in order to flip that lower
chamber. Now, we can confirm that
President Trump has arrived at the
venue, so we are expecting him to at any
moment here take that podium, as he's
going to be threading the needle between
domestic policy, but then also foreign
policy, as we know that he's expected to
hit on not just Venezuela, but also, of
course, Greenland, which is dominating
the conversation where you are, John,
because we have heard from President
Trump in recent hours leading up to this
speech that he is unconcerned by threats
from European allies as they have issued
their grave concerns about the
president's rhetoric when it comes to
what happens in Greenland, but I will
add that our own analysts at Bloomberg
Economics say that they expect the
president to use this speech to very
likely ease instead of escalate tensions
when it comes to the issue and that is
because we have learned that President
Trump will hold five diplomatic meetings
after his speech on the sidelines in
Davos and perhaps will glean some sort
of information on what potential
off-ramps could look like.
>> It's hard. I just want to take these
pictures in full just to give everyone
at home just an idea of what's happening
right now at the World Economic Forum in
Davos, Switzerland. The president
moments away from this address being
introduced at the moment by the co-chair
of the World Economic Forum, Larry Fink.
That room is absolutely packed. It took
a long time to get into the convention
center a little bit earlier on this
morning and I imagine it took a lot of
effort to get one of those seats in that
room.
>> Absolutely. Individuals were lining up.
This was a must-see event. This is the
ticket of the week, especially given the
fact that the president has completely
disrupted the Davos agenda when it comes
to foreign policy. He has threatened
tariffs on Europe and a number of
nations if he does not get what he says
Greenland, which is critical to national
security. I spoke with Ambassador
Jameson Greer earlier. He sees this as
two tracks. He's saying yes, the
Europeans bring up Greenland, but we
have a trade deal. It's like but the
Europeans are saying that now you're
adding more tariffs, so that might mean
that negates the prior trade deal.
There's a lot of discussions around
Greenland and what this means for Europe
and the fact of the matter is it could
have unintended consequences we saw on
full display yesterday when it comes to
the Prime Minister of Canada.
>> The Prime Minister of Canada with a very
blunt, I would say almost aggressive
speech yesterday. We've all talked about
this radical transparency that's come to
the surface at this forum where people
are no longer saving it for behind
closed doors. They're saying it just to
up front on the record about what they
think. Prime Minister Mark Carney saying
this is not a transition. This is a
rupture. He said it's a new world order.
Middle powers need to understand that.
Now, my question, Lisa, is okay, that's
the conclusion. Now, show me the action.
What are the concrete steps you'll be
taking with that in mind?
>> Well, this is part of the problem and
part of the reason why you're getting
radical transparency from President
Trump, but a much less than that from a
number of different leaders who are
trying to be highly diplomatic so that
they don't have targets on their back.
And there's a real question if you can't
come through, then do you just make
yourself persona non grata and put
yourself in a work worse position in
some of these negotiations. It's a dance
right now and you could feel that in
some of the text chains that were
released with the president on Truth
Social.
>> think we even need the text chains
anymore. Just listen to the words of the
French President Emmanuel Macron in the
last 24 hours accusing the Americans of
trying to subordinate the Europeans.
Does the president respond to that in
this address to the World Economic Forum
as he steps up to the stage and
addresses not just this forum. Addresses
the world in a much anticipated speech
at the World Economic Forum, the
president of the United States.